http://arxiv.org/abs/1904.05857v1
Astro2020 Science White Paper: Future X-ray Studies of Supernova
  Remnants
This is a white paper submitted in response to the call from the Astro2020
Decadal Survey Committee. We outline the scientific progress that will be made
in the next few decades in the study of supernova remnants in the X-ray band,
using observatories like Athena, Lynx, and AXIS.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04447v1
A Unique Messenger to Probe Active Galactic Nuclei: High-Energy
  Neutrinos
This Astro2020 white paper advocates for a multi-messenger approach that
combines high-energy neutrino and broad multi-wavelength electromagnetic
observations to study AGN during the coming decade. The unique capabilities of
these joint observations promise to solve several long-standing issues in our
understanding of AGN as powerful cosmic accelerators.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05475v1
The role of Active Galactic Nuclei in galaxy evolution: insights from
  space ultraviolet spectropolarimetry
This Astro2020 white paper summarizes the unknowns of active galactic nuclei
(AGN) physics that could be unveiled thanks to a new, space-born, ultraviolet
spectropolarimeter. The unique capabilities of high energy polarimetry would
help us to understand the precise mechanisms of matter and energy transfer and
supermassive black holes growth, together with the impact of AGN feedback on
galaxy evolution.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.06136v1
Astro2020 Science White Paper: Dynamical Processes in the Planet-Forming
  Environment
The transfer of circumstellar disk mass and momentum onto the protostar and
out into the environment occurs via a variety of mechanisms including
magnetospheric accretion, jets, outflows, and disk winds. The interplay of
these processes determine both the conditions under which planet formation
occurs and the lifetime of the disk. Metallic emission lines, along with the
Balmer series of hydrogen, probe the kinematics of gas within the
planet-forming and central regions of circumstellar disks. High-spectral
resolution study of these emission lines provides critical information on mass
and momentum loss, turbulence, and disk wind origins.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1905.04096v1
Astro2020 Science White Paper: Radial Metallicity Gradients in
  Star-Forming Galaxies
Spiral star-forming galaxies are complex astrophysical objects whose baryonic
component is dominated by the disk, where most of the star formation resides.
The metallicity in the disk is not uniform, and it usually decreases with the
distance to the galaxy center, in the so-called radial metallicity gradient.
Radial metallicity gradients have been successfully used to set important
constraints on galaxy formation and their chemical evolution. This paper
focuses on the implications of radial metallicity gradients measured with
different probes for a variety of galaxies, and on the foreseen advances in
this field in the astronomical landscape of the 2020s.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1907.07831v1
Searches for Technosignatures in Astronomy and Astrophysics
The search for life beyond the Solar System-a major part of the Planetary
Systems thematic area of the Astro2020 Decadal process-includes the search for
technological life. Although financial support for such searches at the NSF and
NASA and in past decadal surveys has been weak to nonexistent, recent advances
in astrobiology, astrophysics, and advances in technical capability make
searches for technosignatures a compelling theme for 2020-2030 and beyond.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1910.14088v1
A Need for Dedicated Outreach Expertise and Online Programming:
  Astro2020 Science White Paper
Maximizing the public impact of astronomy projects in the next decade
requires NSF-funded centers to support the development of online,
mobile-friendly outreach and education activities. EPO teams with astronomy,
education, and web development expertise should be in place to build accessible
programs at scale and support astronomers doing outreach.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.06810v1
Astro2020: Unleashing the Potential of Dust Emission as a Window onto
  Galaxy Evolution
We present the severe, systematic uncertainties currently facing our
understanding of dust emission, which stymie our ability to truly exploit dust
as a tool for studying galaxy evolution. We propose a program of study to
tackle these uncertainties, describe the necessary facilities, and discuss the
potential science gains that will result. This white paper was submitted to the
US National Academies' Astro2020 Decadal Survey on Astronomy and Astrophysics.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1907.10686v1
Astro2020 State of the Profession White Paper: Astronomy's Archival
  Materials
We argue that it is essential that the Astro2020 survey of the present state
of American astronomy and the recommendations for the next decade address the
issue of ensuring preservation of, and making more discoverable and accessible,
the field's rich legacy materials. These include both archived observations of
scientific value and items of historical importance. Much of this heritage
likely will be lost if action is not taken in the next decade. It is proposed
that the decadal plan include recommendations on (1) compiling a list of
historic sites and development of models for their preservation, (2) carrying
out a comprehensive inventory of astronomy's archival material, and (3)
digitizing, with web-based publication, those photographs and papers judged to
have the most value for scientific and historical investigations. The estimated
cost for an example project on plate preservation is a one-time investment of
less than $10 million over ten years plus the typical on-going costs to
maintain and manage a medium-sized database.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1908.04334v1
The Compton Spectrometer and Imager
In this Astro2020 APC White Paper, we describe a Small Explorer (SMEX)
mission concept called the Compton Spectrometer and Imager. COSI is a Compton
telescope that covers the bandpass often referred to as the "MeV Gap" because
it is the least explored region of the whole electromagnetic spectrum. COSI
provides a significant improvement in sensitivity along with high-resolution
spectroscopy, enabling studies of 511 keV electron-positron annihilation
emission and measurements of several radioactive elements that trace the
Galactic history of supernovae. COSI also measures polarization of gamma-ray
bursts (GRBs), accreting black holes, and pulsars as well as detecting and
localizing multimessenger sources. In the following, we describe the COSI
science, the instrument, and its capabilities. We highlight many Astro2020
science WPs that describe the COSI science in depth.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05469v1
Supermassive Black Hole Spin and Reverberation
X-ray reverberation mapping has emerged as a powerful probe of microparsec
scales around AGN, and with high sensitivity detectors, its full potential in
echo-mapping the otherwise inaccessible disk-corona at the black hole horizon
scale will be revealed.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1907.04897v1
WAET: low-cost ground based telescopes for accelerated exoplanet direct
  imaging
The Wide Aperture Exoplanet Telescope (WAET) is a new ground-based optical
telescope layout with an extremely asymmetric aperture, which results in new
exoplanet imaging reach at very low cost. We suggest that hWAET, a 100x2
telescope, can be built for $150M in the 2020s, and >300m versions merit
further R&D.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04592v1
Astro2020 Decadal Science White Paper: The state of gravitational-wave
  astrophysics in 2020
While still in its infancy, the budding field of gravitational-wave astronomy
has so far exceeded most expectations, and the achievements that have already
been made bode well for the decade to come. While the discoveries made possible
by LIGO have captured the imagination of experts and nonexperts alike, it is
important when looking ahead to consider those discoveries in the context of
the field as a whole. Just as radio, optical, and x-ray radiation probe
different physical phenomena occurring on a range of length and energy scales,
the future of gravitational-wave astrophysics depends on our ability to open up
the entire spectrum. We will describe the scientific prospects for the field of
gravitational-wave astronomy as a whole as we enter the coming decade, and we
will place the specific contributions from a future space-based
gravitational-wave observatory within this context.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04657v1
Astro2020 Science White Paper: Cosmology with a Space-Based
  Gravitational Wave Observatory
There are two big questions cosmologists would like to answer -- How does the
Universe work, and what are its origin and destiny? A long wavelength
gravitational wave detector -- with million km interferometer arms, achievable
only from space -- gives a unique opportunity to address both of these
questions. A sensitive, mHz frequency observatory could use the inspiral and
merger of massive black hole binaries as standard sirens, extending our ability
to characterize the expansion history of the Universe from the onset of dark
energy-domination out to a redshift z ~ 10. A low-frequency detector,
furthermore, offers the best chance for discovery of exotic gravitational wave
sources, including a primordial stochastic background, that could reveal clues
to the origin of our Universe.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04664v1
Astro2020 Science White Paper: High-Resolution Spectroscopic Surveys of
  Ultracool Dwarf Stars & Brown Dwarfs
High resolution spectroscopy of the lowest-mass stars and brown dwarfs
reveals their origins, multiplicity, compositions and physical properties, with
implications for the star formation and chemical evolution history of the Milky
Way. We motivate the need for high-resolution, infrared spectroscopic surveys
to reach these faint sources.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04667v1
Astro2020 Science White Paper: Fundamental Physics with Brown Dwarfs:
  The Mass-Radius Relation
The lowest-mass stars, brown dwarfs and giant exoplanets span a minimum in
the mass-radius relationship that probes the fundamental physics of extreme
states of matter, magnetism, and fusion. This White Paper outlines scientific
opportunities and the necessary resources for modeling and measuring the
mass-radius relationship in this regime.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05583v1
Astro2020 Decadal Science White Paper: Gravitational Wave Survey of
  Galactic Ultra Compact Binaries
Ultra-compact binaries (UCBs) are systems containing compact or degenerate
stars with orbital periods less than one hour. Tens of millions of UCBs are
predicted to exist within theGalaxy emitting gravitational waves (GWs) at mHz
frequencies. Combining GW searches with electromagnetic (EM) surveys like Gaia
and LSST will yield a comprehensive, multimessenger catalog of UCBs in the
galaxy. Joint EM and GW observations enable measurements of masses, radii, and
orbital dynamics far beyond what can be achieved by independent EM or GW
studies. GW+EM surveys of UCBs in the galaxy will yield a trove of unique
insights into the nature of white dwarfs, the formation of compact objects,
dynamical interactions in binaries, and energetic, accretion-driven phenomena
like Type Ia superonovae.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05592v1
Astro2020: Unlocking the Secrets of Late-Stage Stellar Evolution and
  Mass Loss through Radio Wavelength Imaging
During the late phases of evolution, low-to-intermediate mass stars like our
Sun undergo periods of extensive mass loss, returning up to 80% of their
initial mass to the interstellar medium. This mass loss profoundly affects the
stellar evolutionary history, and the resulting circumstellar ejecta are a
primary source of dust and heavy element enrichment in the Galaxy. However,
many details concerning the physics of late-stage stellar mass loss remain
poorly understood, including the wind launching mechanism(s), the mass loss
geometry and timescales, and the mass loss histories of stars of various
initial masses. These uncertainties have implications not only for stellar
astrophysics, but for fields ranging from star formation to extragalactic
astronomy and cosmology. Observations at centimeter, millimeter, and
submillimeter wavelengths that resolve the radio surfaces and extended
atmospheres of evolved stars in space, time, and frequency are poised to
provide groundbreaking new insights into these questions in the coming decade.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.06720v1
Astro2020 Science White Paper: Black Hole Growth in Mergers and Dual AGN
Hierarchical models of galaxy formation predict that galaxy mergers represent
a significant transitional stage of rapid supermassive black hole (SMBH)
growth. Yet, the connection between the merging process and enhanced active
galactic nuclei (AGN) activity as well as the timescale of SMBH mergers remains
highly uncertain. The breakthrough in reconciling the importance of galaxy
mergers with black hole growth lies in a thoroughly-studied census of dual AGN
across cosmic history, which will be enabled by next-generation observational
capabilities, theoretical advances, and simulations. This white paper outlines
the key questions in galaxy mergers, dual and offset AGN, and proposes
multiwavelength solutions using future high-resolution observatories in the
X-rays (AXIS, Lynx), near and mid-infrared (30 meter class telescopes, JWST),
and submillimeter (ALMA).

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.06750v1
Astro2020 Science White Paper: High Angular Resolution Astrophysics -
  Fundamental Stellar Parameters
Direct determination of fundamental stellar parameters has many profound and
wide-ranging impacts throughout astrophysics. These determinations are rooted
in high angular resolution observations. In particular, as long-baseline
optical interferometry has matured over the past decade, increasingly large
survey samples are serving to empirically ground the basic parameters of these
building blocks of the universe. True imaging and improved parametric fitting
are becoming routinely available, an essential component of fully
characterizing stars, stellar environments, and planets these stars may host.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.07664v1
Astro2020 Science White Paper: Do Supermassive Black Hole Winds Impact
  Galaxy Evolution?
Powerful winds driven by supermassive black holes (SMBHs) are likely the main
mechanism through which SMBHs regulate their own growth and influence the host
galaxy evolution. However, their origin and their capability to impact the
large-scale environment are still highly debated. Fundamental results will come
from high-energy and spatial resolution X-ray observatories.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.07671v1
Astro2020 Science White Paper: Magnetic Fields and Polarization in the
  Diffuse Interstellar Medium
Magnetism is one of the most important forces on the interstellar medium
(ISM), anisotropically regulating the structure and star formation that drive
galactic evolution. Recent high dynamic range observations of diffuse gas and
molecular clouds have revealed new links between interstellar structures and
the ambient magnetic field. ISM morphology encodes rich physical information,
but deciphering it requires high-resolution measurements of the magnetic field:
linear polarization of starlight and dust emission, and Zeeman splitting. These
measure different components of the magnetic field, and crucially, Zeeman
splitting is the only way to directly measure the field strength in the ISM. We
advocate a statistically meaningful survey of magnetic field strengths using
the 21-cm line in absorption, as well as an observational test of the link
between structure formation and field strength using the 21-cm line in
emission. Finally, we report on the serendipitous discovery of linear
polarization of the 21-cm line, which demands both theoretical and
observational follow-up.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.07713v1
High-Energy Galactic Cosmic Rays (Astro2020 Science White Paper)
The origin of the highest energy Galactic cosmic rays is still not
understood, nor is the transition to EeV extragalactic particles. Scientific
progress requires enhancements of existing air-shower arrays, such as: IceCube
with its surface detector IceTop, and the low-energy extensions of both the
Telescope Array and the Pierre Auger Observatory.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.08134v1
Astro2020 Science White Paper: A Shocking Shift in Paradigm for
  Classical Novae
The discovery of GeV gamma-rays from classical novae has led to a
reassessment of these garden-variety explosions, and highlighted their
importance for understanding radiative shocks, particle acceleration, and dust
formation in more exotic, distant transients. Recent collaboration between
observers and theorists has revealed that shocks in novae are energetically
important, and can even dominate their bolometric luminosity. Shocks may also
explain long-standing mysteries in novae such as dust production,
super-Eddington luminosities, and `flares' in optical light curves. Here, we
highlight the multi-wavelength facilities of the next decade that will further
test our nova shock model and fulfill the promise of novae as powerful
astrophysical laboratories.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.09275v1
Astro2020 Science White Paper: Local Dwarf Galaxy Archaeology
Nearby dwarf galaxies are local analogues of high-redshift and metal-poor
stellar populations. Most of these systems ceased star formation long ago, but
they retain signatures of their past that can be unraveled by detailed study of
their resolved stars. Archaeological examination of dwarf galaxies with
resolved stellar spectroscopy provides key insights into the first stars and
galaxies, galaxy formation in the smallest dark matter halos, stellar
populations in the metal-free and metal-poor universe, the nature of the first
stellar explosions, and the origin of the elements. Extremely large telescopes
with multi-object R=5,000-30,000 spectroscopy are needed to enable such studies
for galaxies of different luminosities throughout the Local Group.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.09692v1
Astro2020: Hot Drivers of Stellar Feedback from 10 to 10,000 pc
Stellar feedback -- stars regulating further star formation through the
injection of energy and momentum into the interstellar medium -- operates
through a complex set of processes that originate in star clusters but shape
entire galaxies. A mature theory of stellar feedback is essential to a complete
theory of star and galaxy formation, but the energy and momentum injected by
hot gas into its surroundings remains unclear. With a next-generation X-ray
observatory, breakthrough progress can be made through precision measurements
of the temperature, density, velocity, and abundances of hot gas on scales of
star clusters to galactic superwinds.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.09693v1
Astro2020: How does dust escape from galaxies?
Whenever gas is blown out of a galaxy, chances are that it contains some
cosmic dust. This dust is an important part of the metals budget for the
circumgalactic and intergalactic media, and traces the outflow and stripping
history of the galaxy. The dust is also interesting in its own right, as dust
plays an essential role in many astrophysical processes. We have only begun to
learn about circumgalactic dust, and in particular we do not know how (and
when) it escapes its host galaxy. Here we describe the prospects for measuring
the dust mass and properties around many individual galaxies, which will form
the basis for understanding how the dust got there.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.11345v1
Astro2020 Science White Paper: The Extended Cool Gas Reservoirs Within z
  > 1 (Proto-)Cluster Environments
High-redshift ($z$) proto-clusters will serve as testing grounds to probe the
gas supply furnishing the emerging metals, stars, and large-scale structures we
see at the current epoch. This work focuses on the major role large
radio/millimeter (mm) single dish facilities will have in constraining the
bulk, cold (T $= 10^{1-4}$K) molecular and atomic gas content. To highlight the
need for large radio/mm single dishes, we calculate how the high-sensitivity of
the Green Bank Telescope's (GBT) unblocked 100m aperture provides vital
interferometric short-spacing coverage to support higher-resolution ngVLA
observations of the cold neutral gas at the largest scales. These combined
observations are optimal for revealing low-surface brightness emission, and
thus aid in the total baryonic mass estimates across cosmic time.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1904.01447v1
Astro2020 Science White Paper: Black Holes Across Cosmic Time
Supermassive black holes are located at the center of most, if not all,
massive galaxies. They follow close correlations with global properties of
their host galaxies (scaling relations), and are thought to play a crucial role
in galaxy evolution. Yet, we lack a complete understanding of fundamental
aspects of their growth across cosmic time. In particular, we still do not
understand: (1) whether black holes or their host galaxies grow faster and (2)
what is the maximum mass that black holes can reach. The high angular
resolution capability and sensitivity of 30-m class telescopes will
revolutionize our understanding of the extreme end of the black hole and galaxy
mass scale. With such facilities, we will be able to dynamically measure masses
of the largest black holes and characterize galaxy properties out to redshift
$z \sim 1.5$. Together with the evolution of black hole-galaxy scaling
relations since $z \sim 1.5$, the maximum mass black hole will shed light on
the main channels of black hole growth.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1904.01601v1
Astro2020 Science White Paper: A Summary of Multimessenger Science with
  Galactic Binaries
Galactic binaries with orbital periods less than $\approx$1 hr are strong
gravitational wave sources in the mHz regime, ideal for the Laser
Interferometer Space Antenna (LISA). In fact, theory predicts that \emph{LISA}
will resolve tens of thousands of Galactic binaries individually with a large
fraction being bright enough for electromagnetic observations. This opens up a
new window where we can study a statistical sample of compact Galactic binaries
in both, the electromagnetic as well the gravitational wavebands. Using
multi-messenger observations we can measure tidal effects in detached double WD
systems, which strongly impact the outcome of WD mergers. For accreting WDs as
well as NS binaries, multi-messenger observations give us the possibility to
study the angular momentum transport due to mass transfer. In this white paper
we present an overview of the opportunities for research on Galactic binaries
using multi-messenger observations and summarize some recommendations for the
2020 time-frame.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1904.02018v1
Astro2020 Science White Paper: A New Era for X-ray Lensing Studies of
  Quasars and Galaxies
Current X-ray observations and simulations show that gravitational lensing
can be used to infer the structure near the event horizons of black holes,
constrain the dynamics and evolution of black-hole accretion and outflows, test
general relativity in the strong-gravity regime and place constraints on the
evolution of dark matter in the lensing galaxies. These science goals currently
cannot be achieved in a statistically large sample of z = 0.5 - 5 lensed
quasars due to the limited capabilities of current X-ray telescopes and the
relatively low number (~200) of known lensed quasars. The latter limitation
will be resolved with the multi-band and wide-field photometric optical survey
of LSST that is expected to lead to the discovery of > 4,000 additional
gravitationally lensed systems. As we show in this white paper, these science
goals can be reached with an X-ray telescope having a spatial resolution of
<0.5arcsec to resolve the lensed images and a collecting area of >0.5 m^2 at 1
keV.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1904.02120v1
Astro2020 Science White Paper: Cold Gas Outflows, Feedback, and the
  Shaping of Galaxies
There is wide consensus that galaxy outflows are one of the most important
processes determining the evolution of galaxies through cosmic time, for
example playing a key role in shaping the galaxy mass function. Our
understanding of outflows and their drivers, however, is in its infancy ---
this is particularly true for the cold (neutral atomic and molecular) phases of
outflows, which present observational and modeling challenges. Here we outline
several key open questions, briefly discussing the requirements of the
observations necessary to make progress, and the relevance of several existing
and planned facilities. It is clear that galaxy outflows, and particularly cold
outflows, will remain a topic of active research for the next decade and
beyond.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1904.06739v1
Astro2020 Science White Paper: A Unification of the Micro and Macro
  Physics in the Intracluster Medium of Nearby Clusters
Clusters of galaxies are the most massive virialized structures in the
Universe. The microphysical properties of the intracluster plasma can affect
dynamical processes over an enormous range: from the feedback of active
galactic nuclei to shock acceleration in merging clusters. All the major
cosmological simulations assume the astrophysical plasma to be inviscid. It is
critical to measure microphysical properties of the intracluster plasma to
truly understand the physical processes that drive the cosmic evolution.
Tremendous progress has been made by comparing high spatial resolution X-ray
images to (magneto-)hydrodynamic simulations. Future X-ray missions with
calorimeters promise a direct measurement of transport coefficients and gas
motions, providing a more realistic benchmark for cosmological simulations.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1904.11842v1
Astro2020 Science White Paper: Populations of Black Holes in Binaries
Black holes in binary star systems are vital for understanding the process of
pr oducing gravitational wave sources, understanding how supernovae work, and
for p roviding fossil evidence for the high mass stars from earlier in the
Universe. At the present time, sample sizes of these objects, and especially of
black hole s in binaries, are quite limited. Furthermore, more precise
measurements of the binary parameters are needed, as well. With improvements
primarily in X-ray an d radio astronomy capabilities, it should be possible to
build much larger sampl es of much better measured black hole binaries.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1904.11845v1
Astro2020 Science White Paper: Compact Stellar Jets
This paper outlines the importance of understanding jets from compact
binaries for the problem of understanding the broader phenomenology of jet
production. Because X-ray binaries are nearby and bright, have well-measured
system parameters, and vary by factors of $\sim 10^6$ on $\sim$ year
timescales, they provide a unique opportunity to understand how various aspects
of the jet physics change in response to changes in the accretion flow, giving
the possibility of looking for trends within individual systems and testing
their universality with other systems, rather than trying to interpret large
samples of objects on a statistical basis.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1905.00376v1
Astro2020 Science White Paper: Probing the Structure of Interstellar
  Dust from Micron to Kpc Scales with X-ray Imaging
The X-ray regime is a largely underused resource for constraining
interstellar dust grain models and improving our understanding of the physical
processes that dictate how grains evolve over their lifetimes. This is mostly
due to current detectors' relatively low sensitivity and high background,
limiting the targets to the brightest sources. The improved sensitivity of the
next generation of X-ray detectors will allow studies of much fainter sources,
at much higher angular resolution, expanding our sampled sightlines in both
quality and quantity.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1905.05566v1
The production and escape of ionizing photons from galaxies over cosmic
  time (Astro2020 Science White Paper)
The ionizing photons produced by massive stars are key actors in galaxy
evolution. Ionizing photon production and escape is poorly understood. Improved
space-based, spatially-resolved, multiplexed spectroscopic capabilities
covering observed wavelengths of 1000 to 3000 Angstrom, in concert with
spectroscopy from the ELTs and JWST, would lead to definitive answers as to how
ionizing photons are produced and leaked, what populations of galaxies are
responsible for ionizing photon leakage, what determines whether escape is
possible, and how ionizing galaxy populations evolve over cosmic time.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1907.04460v1
Astro2020: Training the Future Generation of Computational Researchers
The current disparity in computational knowledge is a critical hindrance to
the diversity and success of the field. Recommendations are outlined for
policies and funding models to enable the growth and retention of a new
generation of computational researchers that reflect the demographics of the
undergraduate population in Astronomy and Physics.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1907.04867v1
A better consensus: Changes to the Decadal process itself
The importance of the Decadal Survey in astrophysics is great; it deserves
attention and revision. We make recommendations to increase the Survey's
transparency and political legitimacy. The Astro2020 charge asks the Survey to
"generate consensus recommendations". It is healthy to re-evaluate how to
achieve consensus as the community and context evolve. Our recommendations are
the following: (R1) Appoint the Decadal panel chairs and panel members through
a transparent process, or even a democratic process. (R2) Don't make panel
members sign any kinds of non-disclosure agreements, or strictly limit these.
(R3) Educate the community about the Decadal's decision-making and
consensus-building. (R4) Provide written documentation about how white papers
will be read and used. (R5) Give the community an opportunity to comment on and
vote to approve the final reports. (R6) Ask the AAAC to help the agencies make
these changes.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1907.06769v1
Astro2020: Promoting Diversity and Inclusion in Astronomy Graduate
  Education: an Astro2020 APC White Paper by the AAS Taskforce on Diversity and
  Inclusion in Astronomy Graduate Education
The purpose of this white paper is to provide guidance to funding agencies,
leaders in the discipline, and its constituent departments about strategies for
(1) improving access to advanced education for people from populations that
have long been underrepresented and (2) improving the climates of departments
where students enroll. The twin goals of improving access to increase diversity
and improving climate to enhance inclusiveness are mutually reinforcing, and
they are both predicated on a fundamental problem of inequality in
participation. This white paper has been endorsed by the Board of Trustees of
the AAS.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1907.06977v1
Astro2020 APC White Paper: Durable Agency Support for Exoplanet Catalogs
  and Archives
Many projects in current exoplanet science make use of catalogs of known
exoplanets and their host stars. These may be used for demographic, population,
and statistical studies, or for identifying targets for future observations.
The ability to efficiently and accurately conduct exoplanet science depends on
the completeness, accuracy, and access to these catalogs. In this white paper,
we argue that long-term agency support and maintenance of exoplanet archives is
of crucial importance to achieving the scientific goals of the community and
the strategic goals of the funding agencies. As such, it is imperative that
these facilities are appropriately supported and maintained by the national
funding agencies.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1907.07832v1
Searches for Technosignatures: The State of the Profession
The search for life in the universe is a major theme of astronomy and
astrophysics for the next decade. Searches for technosignatures are
complementary to searches for biosignatures, in that they offer an alternative
path to discovery, and address the question of whether complex (i.e.
technological) life exists elsewhere in the Galaxy. This approach has been
endorsed in prior Decadal Reviews and National Academies reports, and yet the
field still receives almost no federal support in the US. Because of this lack
of support, searches for technosignatures, precisely the part of the search of
greatest public interest, suffers from a very small pool of trained
practitioners. A major source of this issue is institutional inertia at NASA,
which avoids the topic as a result of decades-past political grandstanding,
conflation of the effort with non-scientific topics such as UFOs, and confusion
regarding the scope of the term "SETI." The Astro2020 Decadal should address
this issue by making developing the field an explicit priority for the next
decade. It should recommend that NASA and the NSF support training and
curricular development in the field in a way that supports equity and
diversity, and make explicit calls for proposals to fund searches for
technosignatures.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1909.11714v1
Realizing the potential of astrostatistics and astroinformatics
This Astro2020 State of the Profession Consideration White Paper highlights
the growth of astrostatistics and astroinformatics in astronomy, identifies key
issues hampering the maturation of these new subfields, and makes
recommendations for structural improvements at different levels that, if acted
upon, will make significant positive impacts across astronomy.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05130v1
Astro2020 Science White Paper: Science Platforms for Resolved Stellar
  Populations in the Next Decade
Over the past decade, research in resolved stellar populations has made great
strides in exploring the nature of dark matter, in unraveling the star
formation, chemical enrichment, and dynamical histories of the Milky Way and
nearby galaxies, and in probing fundamental physics from general relativity to
the structure of stars. Large surveys have been particularly important to the
biggest of these discoveries. In the coming decade, current and planned surveys
will push these research areas still further through a large variety of
discovery spaces, giving us unprecedented views into the low surface brightness
Universe, the high surface brightness Universe, the 3D motions of stars, the
time domain, and the chemical abundances of stellar populations. These
discovery spaces will be opened by a diverse range of facilities, including the
continuing Gaia mission, imaging machines like LSST and WFIRST, massively
multiplexed spectroscopic platforms like DESI, Subaru-PFS, and MSE, and
telescopes with high sensitivity and spatial resolution like JWST, the ELTs,
and LUVOIR. We do not know which of these facilities will prove most critical
for resolved stellar populations research in the next decade. We can predict,
however, that their chance of success will be maximized by granting use of the
data to broad communities, that many scientific discoveries will draw on a
combination of data from them, and that advances in computing will enable
increasingly sophisticated analyses of the large and complex datasets that they
will produce. We recommend that Astro2020 1) acknowledge the critical role that
data archives will play for stellar populations and other science in the next
decade, 2) recognize the opportunity that advances in computing will bring for
survey data analysis, and 3) consider investments in Science Platform
technology to bring these opportunities to fruition.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.06242v1
The Early Evolution of Stars and Exoplanet Systems: Exploring and
  Exploiting Nearby, Young Stars (an Astro2020 Science White Paper)
Our knowledge of the population of young (age <=750 Myr) stars that lie
within ~120 pc of the Sun is rapidly accelerating. The vast majority of these
nearby, young stars can be placed in kinematically coherent groups (nearby,
young moving groups; NYMGs). NYMGs and their member stars afford unmatched
opportunities to explore a wide variety of aspects of the early evolution of
stars and exoplanet systems, including stellar initial mass functions and age
determination methods; the magnetic activities and high-energy radiation
environments of young, late-type stars; the dynamics of young binary and
hierarchical multiple systems; the late evolutionary stages of circumstellar
disks; and, especially, direct-imaging discovery and characterization of
massive young exoplanets. In this Astro2020 Science White Paper, we describe
how our understanding of these and many other aspects of the early lives of
stars and planetary systems is ripe for progress over the next decade via the
identification and study of NYMG members with present and next-generation
facilities and instruments.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1904.04311v1
Astro2020 APT White Paper: "Mind the gap": a call to redesign astronomy
  graduate education
About one fifth of Ph.D's across all STEM disciplines secure a tenure track
position in academia. It is also the case that science and engineering have
evolved significantly and so has the nature of the labor market and the
increasingly multidisciplinary nature of the greatest scientific challenges.
These realities, however, have not altered the main objective of graduate STEM
education: the training of unidisciplinary academic researchers. There is
therefore a gap between what the students and society need and what graduate
STEM education offers. At root of the problem is not only the lack of
information regarding actual career opportunities but the lack of formation
because, as the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering and Medicine
recognized in its recent report entitled "Graduate STEM Education for the 21st
Century", "many graduate programs do not adequately prepare students to
translate their knowledge into impact in multiple careers". In that report, the
National Academies of Sciences sets new standards for graduate STEM education,
describes the actions required by each stakeholder, and urges all to strongly
commit to this paradigm change. Astro2020 represents an opportunity for the
astronomy and astrophysics community to show this commitment by issuing
recommendations on the redesign of astronomy graduate education following the
new guidelines set by the National Academies of Sciences. By "minding the gap"
between expectations and opportunities, keeping in mind the evolving needs of
the STEM workforce, we can better justify the use of tax-payers money with an
investment that allows to do transformative science while conscientiously
training highly qualified STEM professionals able to apply the power of science
to problems and opportunities of generations to come, as envisioned by Vannevar
Bush's science as the endless frontier.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1907.05904v1
Astro2020: Astrophotonics White Paper
Astrophotonics is the application of versatile photonic technologies to
channel, manipulate, and disperse guided light from one or more telescopes to
achieve scientific objectives in astronomy in an efficient and cost-effective
way. The developments and demands from the telecommunication industry have
driven a major boost in photonic technology and vice versa in the last 40
years. The photonic platform of guided light in fibers and waveguides has
opened the doors to next-generation instrumentation for both ground- and
space-based telescopes in optical and near/mid-IR bands, particularly for the
upcoming extremely large telescopes (ELTs). The large telescopes are pushing
the limits of adaptive optics to reach close to a near-diffraction-limited
performance. The photonic devices are ideally suited for capturing this
AO-corrected light and enabling new and exciting science such as characterizing
exoplanet atmospheres. The purpose of this white paper is to summarize the
current landscape of astrophotonic devices and their scientific impact,
highlight the key issues, and outline specific technological and organizational
approaches to address these issues in the coming decade and thereby enable new
discoveries as we embark on the era of extremely large telescopes.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1908.03277v2
A Great Successor to the Hubble Space Telescope
The Hubble Space Telescope (HST) has been the most impactful science-driven
mission ever flown by NASA. However, when HST reaches the end of its life,
there will be a void due to the loss of some of the science capabilities
afforded by HST to astronomers world-wide. The previous 2010 Decadal Survey
(DS) noted this void, arguing for the need for a successor to HST with UV
capabilities in three separate places in the main report (pp. 190, 203, and
220). The large strategic missions that will follow HST, namely JWST and
WFIRST, will continue to spark the interest of the public in space-based
astronomy. In order to ensure continued US preeminence in the arena of large
space-based astrophysics missions, and a seamless transition after WFIRST, a
future flagship mission must be waiting in the wings. Anticipating this need,
NASA initiated four large strategic mission concept studies (HabEx, LUVOIR,
Lynx, and Origins), which have mature designs, including detailed technology
assessments and development plans. Two of these concepts, HabEx and LUVOIR, are
responsive to the recommendations of the previous DS regarding a UV-capable
mission. Both are more powerful successors to HST, with UV-to-optical
capabilities that range from significant enhancements to orders-of-magnitude
improvement. At the same time, technological and scientific advances over the
past decade only now make it feasible to marry such a mission with one that can
search for life outside the solar system. Acknowledging that the constraints
that the Astro2020 DS must consider may be difficult to anticipate, the HabEx
and LUVOIR studies present eleven different variants, each of which enable
groundbreaking science, including the direct imaging and characterization of
exoplanets. The HabEx and LUVOIR mission studies offer a full suite of options
to the Astro2020 DS, with corresponding flexibility in budgeting and phasing.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1809.09668v1
The LUVOIR Mission Concept Study Interim Report
The Large UV/Optical/Infrared Surveyor (LUVOIR) mission is one of four
Decadal Survey Mission Concepts studied by NASA in preparation for the US
National Academies' Astro2020 Decadal Survey. This observatory has the major
goal of characterizing a wide range of exoplanets, including those that might
be habitable -- or even inhabited. It would simultaneously enable a great leap
forward in a broad range of astrophysics -- from the epoch of reionization,
through galaxy formation and evolution, to star and planet formation. Powerful
remote sensing observations of Solar System bodies will also be possible. This
Interim Report on the LUVOIR study presents the scientific motivations and
goals of the mission concept, the preliminary and partial engineering design,
and technology development information.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04063v2
What is the nature and origin of the highest-energy particles in the
  universe?
This white paper was submitted to the US Astronomy and Astrophysics Decadal
Survey (Astro2020) and defines the science questions to be answered in the next
decade in the field of Ultra-High Energy Cosmic-Rays. Following a review of the
recent experimental and theoretical advances in the field, the paper outlines
strategies and requirements desirable for the design of future experiments.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04686v1
Discovery of Cold Brown Dwarfs or Free-Floating Giant Planets Close to
  the Sun
This White Paper describes the opportunities for discovery of Jupiter-mass
objects with 300K atmospheres. The discovery and characterization of such cold
objects is vital for understanding the low-mass terminus of the initial mass
function and for optimizing the study of exoplanets by the next generation of
large telescopes, space probes and space missions.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05544v1
The radio search for technosignatures in the decade 2020-2030
Advancing the scientific frontier in the search for life in the universe
requires support of searches for both biosignatures and technosignatures. A
modest budgetary increment can expand the search for life in the universe from
primitive to complex life and from the solar neighborhood to the entire Galaxy.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.08183v1
Supermassive Black-hole Demographics & Environments With Pulsar Timing
  Arrays
Precision timing of large arrays (>50) of millisecond pulsars will detect the
nanohertz gravitational-wave emission from supermassive binary black holes
within the next ~3-7 years. We review the scientific opportunities of these
detections, the requirements for success, and the synergies with
electromagnetic instruments operating in the 2020s.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.08194v1
Fundamental Physics with Radio Millisecond Pulsars
We summarize the state of the art and future directions in using millisecond
radio pulsars to test gravitation and measure intrinsic, fundamental parameters
of the pulsar systems. As discussed below, such measurements continue to yield
high-impact constraints on viable nuclear processes that govern the
theoretically-elusive interior of neutron stars, and place the most stringent
limits on the validity of general relativity in extreme environments. Ongoing
and planned pulsar-timing measurements provide the greatest opportunities for
measurements of compact-object masses and new general-relativistic variations
in orbits.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1904.01089v1
Stellar Characterization Necessary to Define Holistic Planetary
  Habitability
It is a truism within the exoplanet field that "to know the planet, you must
know the star." This pertains to the physical properties of the star (i.e.
mass, radius, luminosity, age, multiplicity), the activity and magnetic fields,
as well as the stellar elemental abundances which can be used as a proxy for
planetary composition. In this white paper, we discuss important stellar
characteristics that require attention in upcoming ground- and space-based
missions, such that their processes can be understood and either detangled from
that of the planet, correlated with the presence of a planet, or utilized in
lieu of direct planetary observations.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1904.01092v1
An Interdisciplinary Perspective on Elements in Astrobiology: From Stars
  to Planets to Life
Stellar elemental abundances direct impact planetary interior structure and
mineralogy, surface composition, and life. However, the different communities
that are necessary for planetary habitability exploration (astrophysics,
planetary science, geology, and biology) emphasize different elements. If we
are to make progress, especially in view of upcoming NASA missions, we must
collectively broaden our communication regarding lists of useful elements,
their impact on planetary systems, and how they can be observed in the near and
long term.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1904.01438v2
The Discovery Potential of Space-Based Gravitational Wave Astronomy
A space-based interferometer operating in the previously unexplored mHz
gravitational band has tremendous discovery potential. If history is any guide,
the opening of a new spectral band will lead to the discovery of entirely new
sources and phenomena. The mHz band is ideally suited to exploring beyond
standard model processes in the early universe, and with the sensitivities that
can be reached with current technologies, the discovery space for exotic
astrophysical systems is vast.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1907.01676v2
Astro2020 APC White Paper: The Early Career Perspective on the Coming
  Decade, Astrophysics Career Paths, and the Decadal Survey Process
In response to the need for the Astro2020 Decadal Survey to explicitly engage
early career astronomers, the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and
Medicine hosted the Early Career Astronomer and Astrophysicist Focus Session
(ECFS) on October 8-9, 2018 under the auspices of Committee of Astronomy and
Astrophysics. The meeting was attended by fifty six pre-tenure faculty,
research scientists, postdoctoral scholars, and senior graduate students, as
well as eight former decadal survey committee members, who acted as
facilitators. The event was designed to educate early career astronomers about
the decadal survey process, to solicit their feedback on the role that early
career astronomers should play in Astro2020, and to provide a forum for the
discussion of a wide range of topics regarding the astrophysics career path.
  This white paper presents highlights and themes that emerged during two days
of discussion. In Section 1, we discuss concerns that emerged regarding the
coming decade and the astrophysics career path, as well as specific
recommendations from participants regarding how to address them. We have
organized these concerns and suggestions into five broad themes. These include
(sequentially): (1) adequately training astronomers in the statistical and
computational techniques necessary in an era of "big data", (2) responses to
the growth of collaborations and telescopes, (3) concerns about the adequacy of
graduate and postdoctoral training, (4) the need for improvements in equity and
inclusion in astronomy, and (5) smoothing and facilitating transitions between
early career stages. Section 2 is focused on ideas regarding the decadal survey
itself, including: incorporating early career voices, ensuring diverse input
from a variety of stakeholders, and successfully and broadly disseminating the
results of the survey.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1907.07052v1
Robotic laser adaptive optics for rapid visible/near-infrared AO imaging
  and boosted-sensitivity low-resolution NIR integral field spectroscopy
Large area surveys will dominate the next decade of astronomy, and the main
limitation to science will be the thorough followup and characterization of
their extremely numerous discoveries. The deployment of robotic laser adaptive
optics on mid-sized telescopes will be crucial for the sensitive and rapid
characterization of these survey targets.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1907.07817v1
Scheduling Discovery in the 2020s
The 2020s will be the most data-rich decade of astronomy in history. As the
scale and complexity of our surveys increase, the problem of scheduling becomes
more critical. We must develop high-quality scheduling approaches, implement
them as open-source software, and begin linking the typically separate stages
of observation and data analysis.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1907.08945v1
Next Generation LSST Science
The Large Synoptic Survey Telescope (LSST) can advance scientific frontiers
beyond its groundbreaking 10-year survey. Here we explore opportunities for
extended operations with proposal-based observing strategies, new filters, or
transformed instrumentation. We recommend the development of a mid-decade
community- and science-driven process to define next-generation LSST
capabilities.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1907.12677v1
Cal X-1: an absolute in-orbit calibrator for current and future X-ray
  observatories
We describe Cal X-1, a SmallSat mission concept to establish X-ray standard
candles in the sky, which will enable absolute calibration of the current and
future X-ray observatories. It consists of two CubeSats flying in formation,
one containing an absolutely calibrated X-ray source and another, 1-2 km away,
a simple X-ray telescope.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1901.07571v1
Near-Field Cosmology with the Lowest-Mass Galaxies
The premise of "near-field cosmology" is that the study of nearby low-mass
galaxies on a star-by-star basis has implications that extend far beyond the
local Universe and include the nature of dark matter, lives and deaths of the
first stars, cosmic reionization, and galaxy formation across cosmic time. In
response to the Astro2020 call for science white papers, we provide a
high-level synopsis of several major questions in near-field cosmology, the
potential for transformative progress in the next decade and beyond, and
mechanisms for achieving these goals. Our recommendations include: (i)
obtaining kinematic information from large samples of individual line-of-sight
and transverse velocities of stars and from spatially resolved gas observations
in nearby dwarf galaxies to directly inform our understanding of dark matter
interactions in the deeply nonlinear regime; and (ii) an intensive program of
optical imaging and UV and optical spectroscopy of resolved stars in low-mass
galaxies, including low-metallicity massive stars and HII regions (which are
central to understanding faint galaxies at all earlier epochs). Realizing these
aims requires a large aperture ($\gtrsim 9$m) UV/optical space telescope, a
two-fold community investment in ground-based optical spectroscopy through both
ELTs and a dedicated wide-field spectroscopic survey on a 10m class telescope,
and radio facilities that can measure high-precision, spatially resolved
rotation curves of low-mass galaxies. Finally, we suggest that a servicing
mission to extend the life of HST beyond 2025 should be seriously explored.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04472v1
Gamma Rays and Gravitational Waves
The first multimessenger observation of a neutron star merger was
independently detected in gamma-rays by Fermi-GBM and INTEGRAL SPI-ACS and
gravitational waves by Advanced LIGO and Advanced Virgo. Gravitational waves
are emitted from systems with accelerating quadrupole moments, and detectable
sources are expected to be compact objects. Nearly all distant astrophysical
gamma-ray sources are compact objects. Therefore, serendipitous observations of
these two messengers will continue to uncover the sources of gravitational
waves and gamma-rays, and enable multimessenger science across the Astro2020
thematic areas. This requires upgrades to the ground-based gravitational wave
network and ~keV-MeV gamma-ray coverage for observations of neutron star
mergers, and broadband coverage in both gravitational waves and gamma-rays to
monitor other expected joint sources.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04525v1
Astro2020 Science White Paper: What is the lifecycle of gas and stars in
  galaxy centers?
The closest galaxy center, our own Central Molecular Zone (CMZ; the central
500 pc of the Milky Way), is a powerful laboratory for studying the secular
processes that shape galaxies across cosmic time, from large-scale gas flows
and star formation to stellar feedback and interaction with a central
supermassive black hole. Research over the last decade has revealed that the
process of converting gas into stars in galaxy centers differs from that in
galaxy disks. The CMZ is the only galaxy center in which we can identify and
weigh individual forming stars, so it is the key location to establish the
physical laws governing star formation and feedback under the conditions that
dominate star formation across cosmic history. Large-scale surveys of molecular
and atomic gas within the inner kiloparsec of the Milky Way (~10 degrees) will
require efficient mapping capabilities on single-dish radio telescopes.
Characterizing the detailed star formation process will require large-scale,
high-resolution surveys of the protostellar populations and small-scale gas
structure with dedicated surveys on the Atacama Large Millimeter/submillimeter
Array, and eventually with the James Webb Space Telescope, the Next Generation
Very Large Array, and the Origins Space Telescope.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05026v1
Astro2020 Science White Paper: Assembly of the Most Massive Clusters at
  Cosmic Noon
Galaxy evolution is driven by many complex interrelated processes as galaxies
accrete gas, form new stars, grow their stellar masses and central black holes,
and subsequently quench. The processes that drive these transformations is
poorly understood, but it is clear that the local environment on multiple
scales plays a significant role. Today's massive clusters are dominated by
spheroidal galaxies with low levels of star formation while those in the field
are mostly still actively forming their stars. In order to understand the
physical processes that drive both the mass build up in galaxies and the
quenching of star formation, we need to investigate galaxies and their
surrounding gas within and around the precursors of today's massive galaxy
clusters -- protoclusters at z>2. The transition period before protoclusters
began to quench and become the massive clusters we observe today is a crucial
time to investigate their properties and the mechanisms driving their
evolution. However, until now, progress characterizing the galaxies within
protoclusters has been slow, due the difficulty of obtaining highly complete
spectroscopic observations of faint galaxies at z>2 over large areas of the
sky. The next decade will see a transformational shift in our understanding of
protoclusters as deep spectroscopy over wide fields of view will be possible in
conjunction with high resolution deep imaging in the optical and near-infrared.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05094v1
Stellar multiplicity: an interdisciplinary nexus
Our uncertainties about binary star systems (and triples and so on) limit our
capabilities in literally every single one of the Thematic Areas identified for
Astro2020. We need to understand the population statistics of stellar
multiplicity and their variations with stellar type, chemistry, and dynamical
environment: Correct interpretation of any exoplanet experiment depends on
proper treatment of resolved and unresolved binaries; stellar multiplicity is a
direct outcome of star and companion formation; the most precise constraints on
stellar structure come from well-characterized binary systems; stellar
populations heavily rely on stellar and binary evolution modeling;
high-redshift galaxy radiation and reionization is controlled by
binary-dependent stellar physics; compact objects are the outcomes of binary
evolution; the interpretation of multi-messenger astronomy from gravitational
waves, light, and neutrinos relies on understanding the products of binary star
evolution; near-Universe constraints on the Hubble constant with Type Ia
supernovae and gravitational-wave mergers are subject to systematics related to
their binary star progenitors; local measures of dark-matter substructure
masses are distorted by binary populations. In order to realize the scientific
goals in each of these themes over the next decade, we therefore need to
understand how binary stars and stellar multiplets are formed and distributed
in the space of masses, composition, age, and orbital properties, and how the
distribution evolves with time. This white paper emphasizes the
interdisciplinary importance of binary-star science and advocates that
coordinated investment from all astrophysical communities will benefit almost
all branches of astrophysics.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05602v1
Astro2020: Molecular Masers as Probes of the Dynamic Atmospheres of
  Dying Stars
More than half of the dust and heavy element enrichment in galaxies
originates from the winds and outflows of evolved, low-to-intermediate mass
stars on the asymptotic giant branch (AGB). However, numerous details of the
physics of late-stage stellar mass loss remain poorly understood, ranging from
the wind launching mechanism(s) to the geometry and timescales of the mass
loss. One of the major challenges to understanding AGB winds is that the AGB
evolutionary phase is characterized by the interplay between highly complex and
dynamic processes, including radial pulsations, shocks, magnetic fields,
opacity changes due to dust and molecule formation, and large-scale convective
flows. Collectively, these phenomena lead to changes in the observed stellar
properties on timescales of days to years. Probing the complex atmospheric
physics of AGB stars therefore demands exquisite spatial resolution, coupled
with temporal monitoring over both short and long timescales. Observations of
the molecular maser lines that arise in the winds and outflows of AGB stars
using very long baseline interferometry (VLBI) offer one of the most powerful
tools available to measure the atmospheric dynamics, physical conditions, and
magnetic fields with ultra-high spatial resolution (i.e., up to tens of
microarcseconds, corresponding to ~0.002R* at d~150pc), coupled with the
ability to track features and phenomena on timescales of days to years.
Observational advances in the coming decade will enable contemporaneous
observations of an unprecedented number of maser transitions spanning
centimeter to submillimeter wavelengths. In evolved stars, observations of
masers within the winds and outflows are poised to provide groundbreaking new
insights into the atmospheric physics and mass-loss process.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.06027v2
ASTRO2020 White Paper: JWST: Probing the Epoch of Reionization with a
  Wide Field Time-Domain Survey
A major scientific goal of JWST is to probe the epoch of re-ionization of the
Universe at z above 6, and up to 20 and beyond. At these redshifts, galaxies
are just beginning to form and the observable objects are early black holes,
supernovae, and cosmic infrared background. The JWST has the necessary
sensitivity to observe these targets individually, but a public deep and wide
science enabling survey in the wavelength range from 2-5 $\mu$m is needed to
discover these black holes and supernovae and to cover the area large enough
for cosmic infrared background to be reliably studied. This enabling survey
will also discover a large number of other transients and enable sciences such
as supernova cosmology up to z $\sim$ 5, star formation history at high
redshift through supernova explosions, faint stellar objects in the Milky Way,
and galaxy evolution up to z approaching 10. The results of this survey will
also serve as an invaluable target feeder for the upcoming era of ELT and SKA.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.07295v1
Astro2020 Science White Paper: ISM and CGM in external galaxies
The wavelength range 912-2000A (hereafter far-UV) provides access to
absorption lines of the interstellar medium (ISM), circumgalactic medium (CGM),
and intergalactic medium (IGM) in phases spanning a wide range of ionization,
density, temperature, and molecular gas fraction. Far-UV space telescopes have
enabled detailed studies of the ISM in the Milky Way, paving the way to
understand in particular depletion of elements by condensation onto dust
grains, molecular gas formation pathways, ionization processes, and the
dynamics of shocks. An interesting prospect is to transpose the same level of
details to the ISM in external galaxies, in particular in metal-poor galaxies,
where the ISM chemical composition, physical conditions, and topology
(arrangement of various phases) change dramatically, with significant
consequences on the star-formation properties and on the overall galaxy
evolution. To circumvent current systematic biases in column density
determinations and to examine the ISM enrichment as a function of the
environment, we advocate for a versatile far-UV space mission able to observe
individual O/B stars or stellar clusters in galaxies up to few 100s Mpc away
with a spectral resolution power R~10^{4-5}. Such requirements would also make
it possible to probe multiple quasar lines of sight intersecting the CGM of
galaxies at various redshifts, making it possible to reconcile the various
physical scales and phases and to comprehend the role of gas exchanges and
flows for galaxy evolution.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.08188v1
Astro2020 Science White Paper: Stellar Physics and Galactic Archeology
  using Asteroseismology in the 2020's
Asteroseismology is the only observational tool in astronomy that can probe
the interiors of stars, and is a benchmark method for deriving fundamental
properties of stars and exoplanets. Over the coming decade, space-based and
ground-based observations will provide a several order of magnitude increase of
solar-like oscillators, as well as a dramatic increase in the number and
quality of classical pulsator observations, providing unprecedented
possibilities to study stellar physics and galactic stellar populations. In
this white paper, we describe key science questions and necessary facilities to
continue the asteroseismology revolution into the 2020's.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.08670v1
Astro2020 Science White Paper: The Local Relics of of Supermassive Black
  Hole Seeds
We have compelling evidence for stellar-mass black holes (BHs) of ~5-80 M_sun
that form through the death of massive stars. We also have compelling evidence
for so-called supermassive BHs (10^5-10^10 M_sun) that are predominantly found
in the centers of galaxies. We have very good reason to believe there must be
BHs with masses in the gap between these ranges: the first ~10^9 M_sun BHs are
observed only hundreds of millions of years after the Big Bang, and all
theoretically viable paths to making supermassive BHs require a stage of
"intermediate" mass. However, no BHs have yet been reliably detected in the
100-10}^5 M_sun mass range. Uncovering these intermediate-mass BHs of 10^3-10^5
M_sun is within reach in the coming decade. In this white paper we highlight
the crucial role that 30-m class telescopes will play in dynamically detecting
intermediate-mass black holes, should they exist.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.09205v1
Astro2020 Science White Paper: gravity-wave asteroseismology of
  intermediate- and high-mass stars
The evolution of a star is driven by the physical processes in its interior
making the theory of stellar structure and evolution the most crucial
ingredient for not only stellar evolution studies, but any field of astronomy
which relies on the yields along stellar evolution. High-precision time-series
photometric data assembled by recent space missions revealed that current
models of stellar structure and evolution show major shortcomings already in
the two earliest nuclear burning phases, impacting all subsequent phases prior
to the formation of the end-of-life remnant. This white paper focuses
specifically on the transport of chemical elements and of angular momentum in
the stellar structure and evolution models of stars born with convective core,
as revealed by their gravity-mode oscillations.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.10589v1
Astro2020 Science White Paper: Radio Counterparts of Compact Object
  Mergers in the Era of Gravitational-Wave Astronomy
GHz radio astronomy has played a fundamental role in the recent dazzling
discovery of GW170817, a neutron star (NS)-NS merger observed in both
gravitational waves (GWs) and light at all wavelengths. Here we show how the
expected progress in sensitivity of ground-based GW detectors over the next
decade calls for U.S.-based GHz radio arrays to be improved beyond current
levels. We discuss specifically how several new scientific opportunities would
emerge in multi-messenger time-domain astrophysics if a next generation GHz
radio facility with sensitivity and resolution $10\times$ better than the
current Jansky Very Large Array (VLA) were to work in tandem with ground-based
GW detectors. These opportunities include probing the properties, structure,
and size of relativistic jets and wide-angle ejecta from NS-NS mergers, as well
as unraveling the physics of their progenitors via host galaxy studies.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.11192v1
Astro2020 Science White Paper: Probing Magnetic Reconnection in Solar
  Flares - New Perspectives from Radio Dynamic Imaging Spectroscopy
Magnetic reconnection is a fundamental physical process in many laboratory,
space, and astrophysical plasma contexts. Solar flares serve as an outstanding
laboratory to study the magnetic reconnection and the associated energy release
and conversion processes under plasma conditions difficult to reproduce in the
laboratory, and with considerable spatiotemporal details not possible elsewhere
in astrophysics. Here we emphasize the unique power of remote-sensing
observations of solar flares at radio wavelengths. In particular, we discuss
the transformative technique of broadband radio dynamic imaging spectroscopy in
making significant contributions to addressing several outstanding challenges
in magnetic reconnection, including the capability of pinpointing magnetic
reconnection sites, measuring the time-evolving reconnecting magnetic fields,
and deriving the spatially and temporally resolved distribution function of
flare-accelerated electrons.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.11212v2
Circumgalactic Gas and the Precipitation Limit
During the last decade, numerous and varied observations, along with
increasingly sophisticated numerical simulations, have awakened astronomers to
the central role the circumgalactic medium (CGM) plays in regulating galaxy
evolution. It contains the majority of the baryonic matter associated with a
galaxy, along with most of the metals, and must continually replenish the star
forming gas in galaxies that continue to sustain star formation. And while the
CGM is complex, containing gas ranging over orders of magnitude in temperature
and density, a simple emergent property may be governing its structure and
role. Observations increasingly suggest that the ambient CGM pressure cannot
exceed the limit at which cold clouds start to condense out and precipitate
toward the center of the potential well. If feedback fueled by those clouds
then heats the CGM and causes it to expand, the pressure will drop and the
"rain" will diminish. Such a feedback loop tends to suspend the CGM at the
threshold pressure for precipitation. The coming decade will offer many
opportunities to test this potentially fundamental principle of galaxy
evolution.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.12025v1
Astro2020 Science White Paper: The fundamentals of outflows from evolved
  stars
Models of the chemical evolution of the interstellar medium, galaxies, and
the Universe rely on our understanding of the amounts and chemical composition
of the material returned by stars and supernovae. Stellar yields are obtained
from stellar-evolution models, which currently lack predictive prescriptions of
stellar mass loss, although it significantly affects stellar lifetimes,
nucleosynthesis, and chemical ejecta. Galaxy properties are derived from
observations of the integrated light of bright member stars. Stars in the late
stages of their evolution are among the infrared-brightest objects in galaxies.
An unrealistic treatment of the mass-loss process introduces significant
uncertainties in galaxy properties derived from their integrated light. We
describe current efforts and future needs and opportunities to characterize AGB
outflows: driving mechanisms, outflow rates, underlying fundamental physical
and chemical processes such as dust grain formation, and dependency of these on
metallicity.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1904.00217v1
Astro2020 White Paper: A Direct Measure of Cosmic Acceleration
Nearly a century after the discovery that we live in an expanding Universe,
and two decades after the discovery of accelerating cosmic expansion, there
remains no direct detection of this acceleration via redshift drift - a change
in the cosmological expansion velocity versus time. Because cosmological
redshift drift directly determines the Hubble parameter H(z), it is arguably
the cleanest possible measurement of the expansion history, and has the
potential to constrain dark energy models (e.g. Kim et al. 2015). The challenge
is that the signal is small - the best observational constraint presently has
an uncertainty several orders of magnitude larger than the expected signal
(Darling 2012). Nonetheless, direct detection of redshift drift is becoming
feasible, with upcoming facilities such as the ESO-ELT and SKA projecting
possible detection within two to three decades. This timescale is uncomfortably
long given the potential of this cosmological test. With dedicated experiments
it should be possible to rapidly accelerate progress and detect redshift drift
with only a five-year observational baseline. Such a facility would also be
ideal for precision radial velocity measurements of exoplanets, which could be
obtained as a byproduct of the ongoing calibration measurements for the
experiment.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1904.01773v1
Astro2020: From Stars to Compact Objects: The Initial-Final Mass
  Relation
One of the key phases of stellar evolution that remains poorly understood is
stellar death. We lack a predictive model for how a star of a given mass
explodes and what kind of remnant it leaves behind (i.e. the initial-final mass
relation, IFMR). Progress has been limited due to the difficulty in finding and
weighing black holes and neutron stars in large numbers. Technological advances
that allow for sub-milliarcsecond astrometry in crowded fields have opened a
new window for finding black holes and neutron stars: astrometric gravitational
lensing. Finding and weighing a sample of compact objects with astrometric
microlensing will allow us to place some of the first constraints on the
present-day mass function of isolated black holes and neutron stars, their
multiplicity, and their kick velocities. All of these are fundamental inputs
into understanding the death phase of stellar evolution, improving supernovae
models, and interpreting LIGO detections in an astrophysical context. To
achieve these goals, we require large area surveys, such as the WFIRST
exoplanet microlensing survey, to photometrically identify long-duration (>120
day), un-blended microlensing events as candidate compact objects. We also
require high-precision astrometric follow-up monitoring using extremely large
telescopes, equipped with adaptive optics, such as TMT and GMT.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1904.08485v1
Astro2020 Science White Paper: Are Supernovae the Dust Producer in the
  Early Universe?
Whether supernovae are a significant source of dust has been a long-standing
debate. The large quantities of dust observed in high-redshift galaxies raise a
fundamental question as to the origin of dust in the Universe since stars
cannot have evolved to the AGB dust-producing phase in high-redshift galaxies.
In contrast, supernovae occur within several millions of years after the onset
of star formation. This white paper focuses on dust formation in supernova
ejecta with US-Extremely Large Telescope (ELT) perspective during the era of
JWST and LSST.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1907.04388v1
The Origin of Elements Across Cosmic Time: Astro2020 Science White Paper
The problem of the origin of the elements is a fundamental one in astronomy
and one that has many open questions. Prominent examples include (1) the nature
of Type Ia supernovae and the timescale of their contributions; (2) the
observational identification of elements such as titanium and potassium with
the $\alpha$-elements in conflict with core-collapse supernova predictions; (3)
the number and relative importance of r-process sites; (4) the origin of carbon
and nitrogen and the influence of mixing and mass loss in winds; and (5) the
origin of the intermediate elements, such as Cu, Ge, As, and Se, that bridge
the region between charged-particle and neutron-capture reactions. The next
decade will bring to maturity many of the new tools that have recently made
their mark, such as large-scale chemical cartography of the Milky Way and its
satellites, the addition of astrometric and asteroseismic information, the
detection and characterization of gravitational wave events, 3-D simulations of
convection and model atmospheres, and improved laboratory measurements for
transition probabilities and nuclear masses. All of these areas are key for
continued improvement, and such improvement will benefit many areas of
astrophysics.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1907.04943v1
Astro2020 APC White Paper: Accessible Astronomy: Policies, Practices,
  and Strategies to Increase Participation of Astronomers with Disabilities
(Abridged) In this white paper, we outline the major barriers to access
within the educational and professional practice of astronomy. We present
current best practices for inclusivity and accessibility, including classroom
practices, institutional culture, support for infrastructure creation, hiring
processes, and outreach initiatives. We present specific ways--beyond simple
compliance with the ADA--that funding agencies, astronomers, and institutions
can work together to make astronomy as a field more accessible, inclusive, and
equitable. In particular, funding agencies should include the accessibility of
institutions during proposal evaluation, hold institutions accountable for
inaccessibility, and support efforts to gather data on the status and progress
of astronomers and astronomy students with disabilities.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1907.06217v1
POEMMA (Probe of Extreme Multi-Messenger Astrophysics) design
The Probe Of Extreme Multi-Messenger Astrophysics (POEMMA) is a NASA
Astrophysics probe-class mission designed to observe ultra-high energy cosmic
rays (UHECRs) and cosmic neutrinos from space. Astro2020 APC white paper:
Medium-class Space Particle Astrophysics Project.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1907.06970v1
Astro2020 APC White Paper: Pursuing diversity, equity, and inclusion in
  multimessenger astronomy collaborations over the coming decade
A major goal for the astronomy and astrophysics communities is the pursuit of
diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) in all ranks, from students through
professional scientific researchers. Large scientific collaborations -
increasingly a primary place for both professional interactions and research
opportunities - can play an important role in the DEI effort. Multimessenger
astronomy, a new and growing field, is based on the principle that working
collaboratively produces synergies, enabling advances that would not be
possible without cooperation. The nascent Multimessenger Diversity Network
(MDN) is extending this collaborative approach to include DEI initiatives.
After we review of the current state of DEI in astronomy and astrophysics, we
describe the strategies the MDN is developing and disseminating to support and
increase DEI in the fields over the coming decade: provide opportunities (real
and virtual) to share DEI knowledge and resources, include DEI in
collaboration-level activities, including external reviews, and develop and
implement ways to recognize the DEI work of collaboration members.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1907.07005v1
Ex Luna, Scientia: The Lunar Occultation eXplorer (LOX)
LOX is a lunar-orbiting astrophysics mission that will probe the cosmos at
MeV energies. It is guided by open questions regarding thermonuclear, or
Type-Ia, supernovae (SNeIa) and will characterize these inherently radioactive
objects by enabling a systematic survey of SNeIa at gamma-ray energies for the
first time. Astronomical investigations from lunar orbit afford new
opportunities to advance our understanding of the cosmos. The foundation of LOX
is an observational approach well suited to the all-sky monitoring demands of
supernova investigations and time-domain astronomy. Its inherently wide
field-of-view and continuous all-sky monitoring provides an innovative way of
addressing decadal survey questions at MeV energies (0.1-10 MeV). The LOX
approach achieves high sensitivity with a simple, high-heritage instrument
design that eliminates the need for complex, position-sensitive detectors,
kinematic event reconstruction, masks, or other insensitive detector mass,
while also mitigating technology development, implementation complexity, and
their associated costs. LOX can be realized within existing programs, like
Explorer.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1907.07184v1
On the need for synthetic data and robust data simulators in the 2020s
As observational datasets become larger and more complex, so too are the
questions being asked of these data. Data simulations, i.e., synthetic data
with properties (pixelization, noise, PSF, artifacts, etc.) akin to real data,
are therefore increasingly required for several purposes, including: (1)
testing complicated measurement methods, (2) comparing models and astrophysical
simulations to observations in a manner that requires as few assumptions about
the data as possible, (3) predicting observational results based on models and
astrophysical simulations for, e.g., proposal planning, and (4) mitigating risk
for future observatories and missions by effectively priming and testing
pipelines. We advocate for an increase in using synthetic data to plan for and
interpret real observations as a matter of routine. This will require funding
for (1) facilities to provide robust data simulators for their instruments,
telescopes, and surveys, and (2) making synthetic data publicly available in
archives (much like real data) so as to lower the barrier of entry to all.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1907.08273v1
Astro2020 Project White Paper: PolyOculus -- Low-cost Spectroscopy for
  the Community
As astronomy moves into the era of large-scale time-domain surveys, we are
seeing a flood of new transient and variable sources which will reach biblical
proportions with the advent of LSST. A key strategic challenge for astronomy in
this era is the lack of suitable spectroscopic followup facilities. In response
to this need, we have developed the PolyOculus approach for producing
large-area-equivalent telescopes by using fiber optics to link modules of
multiple semi-autonomous, small, inexpensive, commercial-off-the-shelf
telescopes. Crucially, this scalable design has construction costs which are
$>10x$ lower than equivalent traditional large-area telescopes. In addition,
PolyOculus is inherently highly automated and well-suited for remote
operations. Development of this technology will enable the expansion of major
research efforts in the LSST era to a host of smaller universities and
colleges, including primarily-undergraduate institutions, for budgets
consistent with their educational expenditures on similar facilities. We
propose to develop and deploy a 1.6-m prototype demonstrator at the Mt. Laguna
Observatory in California, followed by a full-scale 5-meter-class PolyOculus
facility for linkage to existing and upcoming time-domain surveys.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1907.09583v1
A Realistic Roadmap to Formation Flying Space Interferometry
The ultimate astronomical observatory would be a formation flying
interferometer in space, immune to atmospheric turbulence and absorption, free
from atmospheric and telescope thermal emission, and reconfigurable to adjust
baselines according to the required angular resolution. Imagine the
near/mid-infrared sensitivity of the JWST and the far-IR sensitivity of
Herschel but with ALMA-level angular resolution, or imagine having the
precision control to null host star light across 250m baselines and to detect
molecules from the atmospheres of nearby exo-Earths. With no practical
engineering limit to the formation's size or number of telescopes in the array,
formation flying interferometry will revolutionize astronomy and this White
Paper makes the case that it is now time to accelerate investments in this
technological area. Here we provide a brief overview of the required
technologies needed to allow light to be collected and interfered using
separate spacecrafts. We emphasize the emerging role of inexpensive smallSat
projects and the excitement for the LISA Gravitational Wave Interferometer to
push development of the required engineering building-blocks. We urge the
Astro2020 Decadal Survey Committee to highlight the need for a small-scale
formation flying space interferometer project to demonstrate end-to-end
competency with a timeline for first stellar fringes by the end of the decade.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1907.11245v1
Key Challenges for AAS Journals in the Next Decade
The American Astronomical Society (AAS) Journals are a vital asset of our
professional society. With the push towards open access, page charges are a
viable and sustainable option for continuing to effectively fund and publish
the AAS Journals. However, the existing page charge model, which requires
individual authors to pay page charges out of their grants or even out of
pocket, is already challenging to some researchers and could be exacerbated in
the Open Access (OA) era if charges increase. A discussion of alternative
models for funding page charges and publishing costs should be part of the
Astro2020 decadal survey if we wish to continue supporting the sustainable and
accessible publication of US research in AAS journals in the rapidly-shifting
publication landscape. The AAS Publications Committee recommends that the
National Academy of Sciences form a task force to develop solutions and
recommendations with respect to the urgent concerns and considerations
highlighted in this White Paper.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1907.13172v1
Astro2020 APC White Paper: Providing a Timely Review of Input
  Demographics to Advisory Committees
Organizations that support science (astronomy) such as federal agencies,
research centers, observatories, academic institutions, societies, etc. employ
advisory committees and boards as a mechanism for reviewing their activities
and giving advice on practices, policies and future directions. As with any
scientific endeavor, there is concern over complementing these committees with
enough members who have as broad a range of expertise and understanding as
possible, so that bias is mitigated. However, for a number of reasons
(logistical, practical, financial, etc.), committees can also not be infinitely
large and thus trade-offs must be made. It is often recognized that conflicts
of interest must be acknowledged within these committees, but what is not often
recognized it the potential for unmitigated biases and "group think" that can
be introduced as part of these committees.
  In this white paper, we recommend that advisory committees that collect
community input, (e.g., the Decadal Survey review committee), also collect,
compile and review input demographic data before finalizing reports, (e.g., the
final 2020 Decadal Survey Report). A summary of these data should be released
alongside the final survey report. This information would enable the committee
to understand potential "blind spots" and biases of the data collection phase
and inform future data collections of any barriers that affect the omission of
perspectives from various demographics.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1908.00597v1
Astro2020 APC White Paper: Findings and Recommendations from the AAS
  Committee on the Status of Women in Astronomy: Advancing the Career
  Development of Women in Astronomy
The Committee on the Status of Women in Astronomy (CSWA) is calling on
federal science funding agencies, in their role as the largest sources of
funding for astronomy in the United States, to take actions that will advance
career development and improve workplace conditions for women and minorities in
astronomy. Funding agencies can and should lead the charge to produce excellent
diversity and inclusion outcomes in our field by the 2030 Astrophysics Decadal
Survey. Anecdotal and quantitative evidence, gathered both by the CSWA and
other groups, shows that many structural barriers to success remain in our
community. We acknowledge the success of programs like NSF-INCLUDES and
NSF-ADVANCE and endorse their continued work. We also recommend further action
to remove barriers to success for women and minority astronomers.
  Key recommendations are:
  - Federal agencies should push academic institutions to reconsider their
support systems for scientists by requiring a high standard of pay and
benefits.
  - Federal agencies should fund research and programs that explore and
implement strategies for improving the experiences of scientists.
  - Federal agencies should require Principal Investigators (PIs) to provide
plans for creating inclusive work environments and mentoring young scientists.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1908.01907v1
Astro2020 APC White Paper: The need for better tools to design future
  CMB experiments
This white paper addresses key challenges for the design of next-decade
Cosmic Microwave Background (CMB) experiments, and for assessing their
capability to extract cosmological information from CMB polarization. We focus
here on the challenges posed by foreground emission, CMB lensing, and
instrumental systematics to detect the signal that arises from gravitational
waves sourced by inflation and parameterized by $r$, at the level of $r \sim
10^{-3}$ or lower, as proposed for future observational efforts. We argue that
more accurate and robust analysis and simulation tools are required for these
experiments to realize their promise. We are optimistic that the capability to
simulate the joint impact of foregrounds, CMB lensing, and systematics can be
developed to the level necessary to support the design of a space mission at $r
\sim 10^{-4}$ in a few years. We make the case here for supporting such work.
Although ground-based efforts present additional challenges (e.g., atmosphere,
ground pickup), which are not addressed here, they would also benefit from
these improved simulation capabilities.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1908.02822v1
Astro2020 APC White Paper: Collaboration with Integrity: Indigenous
  Knowledge in 21st Century Astronomy
As the oldest science common to all human cultures, astronomy has a unique
connection to indigenous knowledge (IK) and the long history of indigenous
scientific contributions. Many STEM disciplines, agencies and institutions have
begun to do the work of recruiting and retaining underrepresented minorities,
including indigenous, Native American and Native Hawaiian professionals.
However, with the expansion of telescope facilities on sacred tribal or
indigenous lands in recent decades, and the current urgency of global crises
related to climate, food/water sovereignty and the future of humanity, science
and astronomy have the opportunity more than ever to partner with indigenous
communities and respect the wealth of sustainable practices and solutions
inherently present in IK. We share a number of highly successful current
initiatives that point the way to a successful model of "collaboration with
integrity" between western and indigenous scholars. Such models deserve serious
consideration for sustained funding at local and institutional levels. We also
share six key recommendations for funding agencies that we believe will be
important first steps for nonindigenous institutions to fully dialog and
partner with indigenous communities and IK to build together towards a more
inclusive, sustainable and empowering scientific enterprise.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1909.02103v1
Astro2020 APC White Paper: Enabling Terminal Master's Degrees as a Step
  Towards a Ph.D
Earning any advanced degree in physics or astronomy is an arduous process and
major accomplishment. However, not every journey to the Ph.D. is paved equally.
Every year, there are hundreds of students who earn terminal master's degrees
in physics and astronomy in the United States. A master's degree on its own is
sufficient qualification for many good careers, but for a portion of these
students, the master's degree is not the final step in graduate education. When
students with master's degrees decide to continue their education and are
accepted to Ph.D. programs, they often find that their credits do not transfer
and that they will be required to re-do large portions of their master's degree
at their new Ph.D.-granting institution. Here we discuss the need for gathering
more data to understand both the different pathways to a Ph.D. and the students
that choose each route. We also discuss some of the challenges faced by
students that earn a master's degree before beginning a Ph.D. program. As
students in the physical sciences that complete a master's and a Ph.D. at
different schools take over 2 years longer to reach a Ph.D. than students that
get both degrees from the same school, we suggest steps that can be taken to
help these students succeed in a timely manner.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1909.10314v1
Leadership and Participation in NASA's Explorer-Class Missions
We have conducted a data study of leadership and participation in NASA's
Astrophysics Explorer-class missions for the nine solicitations issued during
the period 2008-2016, using gender as a marker of diversity. During this time,
102 Principal Investigators (PIs) submitted Explorer-class proposals; only four
of these PIs were female. Among the 102 PIs, there were 61 unique PIs overall;
of these, just three were female. The percentage of females in science teams in
these proposals ranges from a low of 10% to a high of 19% across the various
solicitations. Combining data from all these Explorer-class proposals, we find
that the overall participation by females in science teams is 14%. Eighteen of
the Explorer-class proposals had zero females in science roles, and this
includes science teams with as many as 28 members. These results demonstrate
that participation by women in the leadership of and, in many cases, on the
science teams of proposals for Explorer-class missions is well below the
representation of women in astronomy and astrophysics as a whole. In this white
paper, we present our data and a discussion of our results, their context, and
the ramifications for consideration by Astro2020 in its study of the state of
the profession.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1909.13747v1
Astro2020 APC White Paper: SmallSats for Astrophysics
The commercial SmallSat industry is booming and has developed numerous
low-cost, capable satellite buses. SmallSats can be used as vehicles for
technology development or to host science missions. Missions hosted on
SmallSats can answer specific science questions that are difficult or
impossible to answer with larger facilities, can be developed relatively
quickly, serve to train engineering and scientists, and provide access to space
for small institutions. SmallSats complement larger Astrophysics missions and
allow the broader community to test new ideas at the bottom of the market,
creating new capabilities which find their way to larger missions. Currently,
NASA Astrophysics does not provide flight opportunities that would allow
technology maturation of instrument systems or concepts of operations. Without
flight opportunities to mature technologies, missions hosted on SmallSats are
likely to be considered high risk, and face long odds being selected for
implementation. Our primary suggestion is that NASA decouples science and
technology for SmallSats by creating a technology-based SmallSat AO, modeled
after the Earth Sciences InVEST call. Such AO would help reduce the new
technology risk for science missions of any size. We also suggest that NASA
provides additional science-driven SmallSat opportunities at the ~$12M funding
level, provides access to new launchers free of charge to proposers, and
re-structures the solicitation AOs so that SmallSats do not compete with other
mission classes such as balloons.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1912.09992v1
Astro2020 APC White Paper: Theoretical Astrophysics 2020-2030
The past two decades have seen a tremendous investment in observational
facilities that promise to reveal new and unprecedented discoveries about the
universe. In comparison, the investment in theoretical work is completely
dwarfed, even though theory plays a crucial role in the interpretation of these
observations, predicting new types of phenomena, and informing observing
strategies. In this white paper, we argue that in order to reach the promised
critical breakthroughs in astrophysics over the next decade and well beyond,
the national agencies must take a serious approach to investment in theoretical
astrophysics research. We discuss the role of theory in shaping our
understanding of the universe, and then we provide a multi-level strategy, from
the grassroots to the national, to address the current underinvestment in
theory relative to observational work.

http://arxiv.org/abs/2002.05072v2
Packed Ultra-wideband Mapping Array (PUMA): Astro2020 RFI Response
The Packed Ultra-wideband Mapping Array (PUMA) is a proposed low-resolution
transit interferometric radio telescope operating over the frequency range 200
- 1100MHz. Its rich science portfolio will include measuring structure in the
universe from redshift z = 0.3 to 6 using 21cm intensity mapping, detecting one
million fast radio bursts, and monitoring thousands of pulsars. It will allow
PUMA to advance science in three different areas of physics (the physics of
dark energy, the physics of cosmic inflation and time-domain astrophysics).
This document is a response to a request for information (RFI) by the Panel on
Radio, Millimeter, and Submillimeter Observations from the Ground (RMS) of the
Decadal Survey on Astronomy and Astrophysics 2020. We present the science case
of PUMA, the development path and major risks to the project.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04461v1
Opportunities for Multimessenger Astronomy in the 2020s
Electromagnetic observations of the sky have been the basis for our study of
the Universe for millennia, cosmic ray studies are now entering their second
century, the first neutrinos from an astrophysical source were identified three
decades ago, and gravitational waves were directly detected only four years
ago. Detections of these messengers are now common. Astrophysics will undergo a
revolution in the 2020s as multimessenger detections become routine. The 8th
Astro2020 Thematic Area is Multimessenger Astronomy and Astrophysics, which
includes the identification of the sources of gravitational waves,
astrophysical and cosmogenic neutrinos, cosmic rays, and gamma-rays, and the
coordinated multimessenger and multiwavelength follow-ups. Identifying and
characterizing multimessenger sources enables science throughout and beyond
astrophysics. Success in the multimessenger era requires: (i) sensitive
coverage of the non-electromagnetic messengers, (ii) full coverage of the
electromagnetic spectrum, with either fast-response observations or broad and
deep high-cadence surveys, and (iii) improved collaboration, communication, and
notification platforms.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04509v1
Astro2020: Empirically Constraining Galaxy Evolution
Over the past decade, empirical constraints on the galaxy-dark matter halo
connection have significantly advanced our understanding of galaxy evolution.
Past techniques have focused on connections between halo properties and galaxy
stellar mass and/or star formation rates. Empirical techniques in the next
decade will link halo assembly histories with galaxies' circumgalactic media,
supermassive black holes, morphologies, kinematics, sizes, colors,
metallicities, and transient rates. Uncovering these links will resolve many
critical uncertainties in galaxy formation and will enable much higher-fidelity
mock catalogs essential for interpreting observations. Achieving these results
will require broader and deeper spectroscopic coverage of galaxies and their
circumgalactic media; survey teams will also need to meet several criteria
(cross-comparisons, public access, and covariance matrices) to facilitate
combining data across different surveys. Acting on these recommendations will
continue enabling dramatic progress in both empirical modeling and galaxy
evolution for the next decade.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04612v3
Astro2020 Science White Paper: Understanding the evolution of close
  white dwarf binaries
Interacting binaries containing white dwarfs can lead to a variety of
outcomes that range from powerful thermonuclear explosions, which are important
in the chemical evolution of galaxies and as cosmological distance estimators,
to strong sources of low frequency gravitational wave radiation, which makes
them ideal calibrators for the gravitational low-frequency wave detector LISA
mission. However, current theoretical evolution models still fail to explain
the observed properties of the known populations of white dwarfs in both
interacting and detached binaries. Major limitations are that the existing
population models have generally been developed to explain the properties of
sub-samples of these systems, occupying small volumes of the vast parameter
space, and that the observed samples are severely biased. The overarching goal
for the next decade is to assemble a large and homogeneous sample of white
dwarf binaries that spans the entire range of evolutionary states, to obtain
precise measurements of their physical properties, and to further develop the
theory to satisfactorily reproduce the properties of the entire population.
While ongoing and future all-sky high- and low-resolution optical spectroscopic
surveys allow us to enlarge the sample of these systems, high-resolution
ultraviolet spectroscopy is absolutely essential for the characterization of
the white dwarfs in these binaries. The Hubble Space Telescope is currently the
only facility that provides ultraviolet spectroscopy, and with its foreseeable
demise, planning the next ultraviolet mission is of utmost urgency.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05665v1
Astro2020 Science White Paper: Toward Finding Earth 2.0: Masses and
  Orbits of Small Planets with Extreme Radial Velocity Precision
Having discovered that Earth-sized planets are common, we are now embarking
on a journey to determine if Earth-like planets are also common. Finding
Earth-like planets is one of the most compelling endeavors of the 21st century
- leading us toward finally answering the question: Are we alone? To achieve
this forward-looking goal, we must determine the masses of the planets; the
sizes of the planets, by themselves, are not sufficient for the determination
of the bulk and atmospheric compositions. Masses, coupled with the radii, are
crucial constraints on the bulk composition and interior structure of the
planets and the composition of their atmospheres, including the search for
biosignatures. Precision radial velocity is the most viable technique for
providing essential mass and orbit information for spectroscopy of other
Earths. The development of high quality precision radial velocity instruments
coupled to the building of the large telescope facilities like TMT and GMT or
space-based platforms like EarthFinder can enable very high spectral resolution
observations with extremely precise radial velocities on minute timescales to
allow for the modeling and removal of radial velocity jitter. Over the next
decade, the legacy of exoplanet astrophysics can be cemented firmly as part of
humankind's quest in finding the next Earth - but only if we can measure the
masses and orbits of Earth-sized planets in habitable zone orbits around
Sun-like stars.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.06152v1
Constraining Stellar Photospheres as an Essential Step for Transmission
  Spectroscopy of Small Exoplanets
Transmission spectra probe the atmospheres of transiting exoplanets, but
these observations are also subject to signals introduced by magnetic active
regions on host stars. Here we outline scientific opportunities in the next
decade for providing useful constraints on stellar photospheres and inform
interpretations of transmission spectra of the smallest ($R<4\,R_{\odot}$)
exoplanets. We identify and discuss four primary opportunities: (1) refining
stellar magnetic active region properties through exoplanet crossing events;
(2) spectral decomposition of active exoplanet host stars; (3) joint retrievals
of stellar photospheric and planetary atmospheric properties with studies of
transmission spectra; and (4) continued visual transmission spectroscopy
studies to complement longer-wavelength studies from $\textit{JWST}$. We make
five recommendations to the Astro2020 Decadal Survey Committee: (1) identify
the transit light source (TLS) effect as a challenge to precise exoplanet
transmission spectroscopy and an opportunity ripe for scientific advancement in
the coming decade; (2) include characterization of host star photospheric
heterogeneity as part of a comprehensive research strategy for studying
transiting exoplanets; (3) support the construction of ground-based extremely
large telescopes (ELTs); (4) support multi-disciplinary research teams that
bring together the heliophysics, stellar physics, and exoplanet communities to
further exploit transiting exoplanets as spatial probes of stellar
photospheres; and (5) support visual transmission spectroscopy efforts as
complements to longer-wavelength observational campaigns with $\textit{JWST}$.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.06218v1
Astro2020 Science White Paper: First Stars and Black Holes at Cosmic
  Dawn with Redshifted 21-cm Observations
The "cosmic dawn" refers to the period of the Universe's history when stars
and black holes first formed and began heating and ionizing hydrogen in the
intergalactic medium (IGM). Though exceedingly difficult to detect directly,
the first stars and black holes can be constrained indirectly through
measurements of the cosmic 21-cm background, which traces the ionization state
and temperature of intergalactic hydrogen gas. In this white paper, we focus on
the science case for such observations, in particular those targeting redshifts
z $\gtrsim$ 10 when the IGM is expected to be mostly neutral. 21-cm
observations provide a unique window into this epoch and are thus critical to
advancing first star and black hole science in the next decade.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.06678v1
Astro2020 Science White Paper: Spatially Resolved UV Nebular Diagnostics
  in Star-Forming Galaxies
Diagnosing the physical and chemical conditions within star-forming galaxies
(SFGs) is of paramount importance to understanding key components of galaxy
formation and evolution: star-formation, gas enrichment, outflows, and
accretion. Well established optical emission-line diagnostics used to discern
such properties (i.e., metal content, density, strength/shape of ionizing
radiation) will be observationally inaccessible for the earliest galaxies,
emphasizing the need for robust, reliable interstellar medium (ISM) diagnostics
at ultraviolet (UV) wavelengths. Calibrating these UV diagnostics requires a
comprehensive comparison of the UV and optical emission lines in nearby SFGs.
Optical integral field unit (IFU) surveys have revealed the inhomogeneous
nature of the ISM in SFGs, which leads to non-systematic biases in the
interpretation of unresolved sources. Spatial variations are especially
important to consider at UV wavelengths, where the strongest emission features
originate from only the highest excitation regions of the nebula and are
challenging to distinguish from competing high-ionization sources (e.g.,
shocks, AGN, etc.). Since surveys collecting large-scale optical integral field
unit (IFU) spectroscopy are already underway, this white paper calls for an IFU
or multi-object far-UV (FUV) spectroscopic instrument with high sensitivity,
high spatial resolution, and large field of view (FoV). Given the impact of
large-scale optical IFU surveys over the past decade, this white paper
emphasizes the scientific need for a comparable foundation of
spatially-resolved far-UV spectroscopy survey of nearby galaxies that will lay
the foundation of diagnostics critical to the interpretation of the distant
universe.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.06867v1
Astro2020 science white paper: The gravitational wave view of massive
  black holes
Coalescing, massive black-hole (MBH) binaries are the most powerful sources
of gravitational waves (GWs) in the Universe, which makes MBH science a prime
focus for ongoing and upcoming GW observatories. The Laser Interferometer Space
Antenna (LISA) -- a gigameter scale space-based GW observatory -- will grant us
access to an immense cosmological volume, revealing MBHs merging when the first
cosmic structures assembled in the Dark Ages. LISA will unveil the yet unknown
origin of the first quasars, and detect the teeming population of MBHs of $10^4
- 10^7$ solar masses. forming within protogalactic halos. The Pulsar Timing
Array, a galactic-scale GW survey, can access the largest MBHs the Universe,
detecting the cosmic GW foreground from inspiraling MBH binaries of about 10^9
solar masses. LISA can measure MBH spins and masses with precision far
exceeding that from electromagnetic (EM) probes, and together, both GW
observatories will provide the first full census of binary MBHs, and their
orbital dynamics, across cosmic time. Detecting the loud gravitational signal
of these MBH binaries will also trigger alerts for EM counterpart searches,
from decades (PTAs) to hours (LISA) prior to the final merger. By witnessing
both the GW and EM signals of MBH mergers, precious information will be
gathered about the rich and complex environment in the aftermath of a galaxy
collision. The unique GW characterization of MBHs will shed light on the deep
link between MBHs of $10^4-10^{10}$ solar masses and the grand design of galaxy
assembly, as well as on the complex dynamics that drive MBHs to coalescence.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.08753v1
Astro2020 Science White Paper: Triggered High-Priority Observations of
  Dynamic Solar System Phenomena
Unexpected dynamic phenomena have surprised solar system observers in the
past and have led to important discoveries about solar system workings.
Observations at the initial stages of these events provide crucial information
on the physical processes at work. We advocate for long-term/permanent programs
on ground-based and space-based telescopes of all sizes - including Extremely
Large Telescopes (ELTs) - to conduct observations of high-priority dynamic
phenomena, based on a predefined set of triggering conditions. These programs
will ensure that the best initial dataset of the triggering event are taken;
separate additional observing programs will be required to study the temporal
evolution of these phenomena. While not a comprehensive list, the following are
notional examples of phenomena that are rare, that cannot be anticipated, and
that provide high-impact advances to our understandings of planetary processes.
Examples include: new cryovolcanic eruptions or plumes on ocean worlds; impacts
on Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus, or Neptune; extreme eruptions on Io; convective
superstorms on Saturn, Uranus, or Neptune; collisions within the asteroid belt
or other small-body populations; discovery of an interstellar object passing
through our solar system (e.g. 'Oumuamua); and responses of planetary
atmospheres to major solar flares or coronal mass ejections.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.09523v1
Detecting Earth-like Biosignatures on Rocky Exoplanets around Nearby
  Stars with Ground-based Extremely Large Telescopes
As we begin to discover rocky planets in the habitable zone of nearby stars
with missions like TESS and CHEOPS, we will need quick advancements on
instrumentation and observational techniques that will enable us to answer key
science questions, such as What are the atmospheric characteristics of
habitable zone rocky planets? How common are Earth-like biosignatures in rocky
planets?} How similar or dissimilar are those planets to Earth? Over the next
decade we expect to have discovered several Earth-analog candidates, but we
will not have the tools to study the atmospheres of all of them in detail.
Ground-based ELTs can identify biosignatures in the spectra of these candidate
exo-Earths and understand how the planets' atmospheres compare to the Earth at
different epochs. Transit spectroscopy, high-resolution spectroscopy, and
reflected-light direct imaging on ELTs can identify multiple biosignatures for
habitable zone, rocky planets around M stars at optical to near-infrared
wavelengths. Thermal infrared direct imaging can detect habitable zone, rocky
planets around AFGK stars, identifying ozone and motivating reflected-light
follow-up observations with NASA missions like HabEx/LUVOIR. Therefore, we
recommend that the Astro2020 Decadal Survey Committee support: (1) the search
for Earth-like biosignatures on rocky planets around nearby stars as a key
science case; (2) the construction over the next decade of ground-based
Extremely Large Telecopes (ELTs), which will provide the large aperture and
spatial resolution necessary to start revealing the atmospheres of
Earth-analogues around nearby stars; (3) the development of instrumentation
that optimizes the detection of biosignatures; and (4) the generation of
accurate line lists for potential biosignature gases, which are needed as model
templates to detect those molecules.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1904.01661v1
Astro2020 Science White Paper: Physical Conditions in the Cold Gas of
  Local Galaxies
We describe a next major frontier in observational studies of galaxy
evolution and star formation: linking the physical conditions in the cold,
star-forming interstellar medium to host galaxy and local environment. The
integrated gas content of galaxies has been surveyed extensively over the last
decades. The link between environment and cold gas density, turbulence,
excitation, dynamical state, and chemical makeup remain far less well
understood. We know that these properties do vary dramatically and theoretical
work posits a strong connection between the state of the gas, its ability to
form stars, and the impact of stellar feedback. A next major step in the field
will be to use sensitive cm-, mm-, and submm-wave spectroscopy and high
resolution spectroscopic imaging to survey the state of cold gas across the
whole local galaxy population. Such observations have pushed the capabilities
of the current generation of telescopes. We highlight three critical elements
for progress in the next decade: (1) robust support and aggressive development
of ALMA, (2) the deployment of very large heterodyne receiver arrays on single
dish telescopes, and (3) development of a new interferometric array that
dramatically improves on current capabilities at cm- and mm-wavelengths (~
1-115 GHz).

http://arxiv.org/abs/1904.05957v1
Astro2020 Science White Paper: Discovery Frontiers of Explosive
  Transients - An ELT & LSST Perspective
The Large Synoptic Survey Telescope (LSST) will open a discovery frontier for
faint and fast transients with its ability to detect variable flux components
down to $\sim$24.5 mag in a $\sim$30 second exposure. Spectroscopic follow-up
of such phenomena - which are necessary for understanding the physics of
stellar explosions - can require a rapid response and several hours with a
8-10m telescope, making it both expensive and difficult to acquire. The future
Extremely Large Telescopes (ELTs) would be able to provide not only
spectroscopy but capabilities such as spectropolarimetry and high-resolution
diffraction-limited imaging that would contribute to future advances in our
physical understanding of stellar explosions. In this white paper we focus on
several specific scientific impacts in the field of explosive transient
astrophysics that will be generated by the combination of LSST's discovery
abilities and ELTs' follow-up capacities. First, we map the uncharted frontier
of discovery phase-space in terms of intrinsic luminosity and timescales for
explosive transients, where we expect the unexpected. We then focus on six
areas with open science questions for known transients: the progenitors of
thermonuclear supernovae (SNe), mass loss prior to core collapse, asymmetry in
stellar explosions, light echoes, high-$z$ transients, and strongly lensed SNe.
We conclude with a brief discussion of the practical aspects of ELT & LSST
synergy.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1904.08442v1
Astro2020 Science White Paper: The Formation and Evolution of Multiple
  Star Systems
Significant advances have been made over the past decade in the
characterization of multiple protostar systems, enabled by the Karl G. Jansky
Very Large Array (VLA), high-resolution infrared observations with the Hubble
Space Telescope, and ground-based facilities. To further understand the
mechanism(s) of multiple star formation, a combination of statistics,
high-angular resolution radio/millimeter continuum imaging, characterization of
kinematic structure, magnetic fields via polarimetry, and comparison with
numerical simulations are needed. Thus, understanding the origin of stellar
multiplicity in different regimes of companion separation will soon be within
reach. However, to overcome challenges that studies in this field are now
confronted with, a range of new capabilities are required: a new
millimeter/centimeter wave facility with 10 mas resolution at {\lambda}=1 cm,
space-based near to far-infrared observatories, continued development of low to
high resolution spectroscopy on 3m to 10m class telescopes, and an ELT-class
telescope with near to mid-infrared imaging/spectroscopic capability.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1904.08443v1
Astro2020 Science White Paper: Measuring Protostar Masses: The Key to
  Protostellar Evolution
Knowledge of protostellar evolution has been revolutionized with the advent
of surveys at near-infrared to submillimeter wavelengths. This has enabled the
bolometric luminosities and bolometric temperatures (traditional protostellar
evolution diagnostics) to be measured for large numbers of protostars. However,
further progress is difficult without knowing the masses of the central
protostars. Protostar masses can be most accurately determined via molecular
line kinematics from millimeter interferometers (i.e., ALMA). Theoretical
investigations have predicted the protostellar mass function (PMF) for various
protostellar mass accretion models, and it is now imperative to observationally
constrain its functional form. While ALMA has enabled protostellar mass
measurements, samples approaching 100 sources are necessary to constrain the
functional form of the PMF, and upgrades to ALMA and/or a new mm/cm facility
will increase the feasibility of measuring such a large number of protostar
masses. The masses of protostars will enable their stellar structure (radius
and intrinsic luminosity), evolution, and accretion histories to be better
understood. This is made more robust when effective temperatures and accretion
rates can be measured via ground/space-based near to mid-infrared spectroscopy.
Furthermore, access to supercomputing facilities is essential to fit the
protostar masses via radiative transfer modeling and updated
theoretical/numerical modeling of stellar structure may also be required.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1904.12967v1
Astro2020 Science White Paper - Quasar Microlensing: Revolutionizing our
  Understanding of Quasar Structure and Dynamics
Microlensing by stars within distant galaxies acting as strong gravitational
lenses of multiply-imaged quasars, provides a unique and direct measurement of
the internal structure of the lensed quasar on nano-arcsecond scales. The
measurement relies on the temporal variation of high-magnification caustic
crossings which vary on timescales of days to years. Multiwavelength
observations provide information from distinct emission regions in the quasar.
Through monitoring of these strong gravitational lenses, a full tomographic
view can emerge with Astronomical-Unit scale resolution. Work to date has
demonstrated the potential of this technique in about a dozen systems. In the
2020s there will be orders of magnitude more systems to work with. Monitoring
of lens systems for caustic-crossing events to enable triggering of
multi-platform, multi-wavelength observations in the 2020s will fulfill the
potential of quasar microlensing as a unique and comprehensive probe of active
black hole structure and dynamics.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1907.03488v1
Astro2020 Science White Paper: Exploration and characterization of the
  earliest epoch of galaxy formation: beyond the re-ionization era
State-of-the-art rest-frame UV and FIR photometric and spectroscopic
observations are now pushing the redshift frontiers of galaxy formation studies
up to $z\sim9-11$ and beyond. Recent HST observations unveiled the presence of
a star-forming galaxy exhibiting the Lyman break at $\lambda_{\rm
obs}=1.47\pm0.01$ $\mu$m, i.e., a $z=11.09^{+0.08}_{-0.12}$ galaxy with a
stellar mass of $\sim10^9 M_\odot$, demonstrating that galaxy build-up was well
underway early in the epoch of reionization (EoR) at $z>10$. Targeted
spectroscopy of a lensed Lyman break galaxy uncovers the earliest metals known
to date up to $z=9.1096\pm0.0006$ by detecting the bright [OIII] 88~$\mu$m
nebular line, indicating the onset of star formation 250 million years after
the Big Bang, i.e., corresponding to a redshift of $z\sim15$. These latest
findings lead us to a number of key questions: How and when metal enrichment
happened in the EoR? What was the nature of the earliest-epoch star-forming
galaxies at $z=10-15$? What was the spatial distribution of such galaxies, and
what was the relation to the putative large-scale ionization bubbles during the
EoR? What were the dark-halo masses of such earliest-epoch star-forming
galaxies? To address all these questions, we need to uncover a statistically
large number of $z=10-15$ galaxies in the pre-reionization era. Here we argue
two possible pathways: (1) a wide-area, sensitive blind spectroscopic survey of
[OIII] 88 $\mu$m line-emitting galaxies at submillimeter wavelengths, and (2)
an ultra-wide-area, high-cadence photometric survey of transient sources at
radio-to-(sub)millimeter wavelengths, together with the immediate follow-up
spectroscopy with an ultra-wide-band spectrograph, to catch the pop-III
$\gamma$-ray bursts.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1907.06440v1
A Roadmap for Astrophysics and Cosmology with High-Redshift 21 cm
  Intensity Mapping
In this white paper, we lay out a US roadmap for high-redshift 21 cm
cosmology (30 < z < 6) in the 2020s. Beginning with the currently-funded HERA
and MWA Phase II projects and advancing through the decade with a coordinated
program of small-scale instrumentation, software, and analysis projects
targeting technology development, this roadmap incorporates our current best
understanding of the systematics confronting 21 cm cosmology into a plan for
overcoming them, enabling next-generation, mid-scale 21 cm arrays to be
proposed late in the decade. Submitted for consideration by the Astro2020
Decadal Survey Program Panel for Radio, Millimeter, and Submillimeter
Observations from the Ground as a Medium-Sized Project.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1907.06715v1
2020 Vision: Towards a Sustainable OIR System
Open-access telescopes of all apertures are needed to operate a competitive
and efficient national science program. While larger facilities contribute
light-gathering power and angular resolution, smaller ones dominate for field
of view, time-resolution, and especially, total available observing time,
thereby enabling our entire, diversely-expert community. Smaller aperture
telescopes therefore play a critical and indispensable role in advancing
science. Thus, the divestment of NSF support for modest-aperture (1 - 4 m)
public telescopes poses a serious threat to U.S. scientific leadership, which
is compounded by the unknown consequences of the shift from observations driven
by individual investigators to survey-driven science. Given the much higher
cost efficiency and dramatic science returns for investments in modest aperture
telescopes, it is hard to justify funding only the most expensive facilities.
We therefore urge the Astro2020 panel to explicitly make the case for modest
aperture facilities, and to recommend enhancing this funding stream to support
and grow this critical component of the OIR System. Further study is urgently
needed to prioritize the numerous exciting potential capabilities of smaller
facilities,and to establish sustainable, long-term planning for the System.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1907.08271v1
Astro2020 Project White Paper: The Cosmic Accelerometer
We propose an experiment, the Cosmic Accelerometer, designed to yield
velocity precision of $\leq 1$ cm/s with measurement stability over years to
decades. The first-phase Cosmic Accelerometer, which is at the scale of the
Astro2020 Small programs, will be ideal for precision radial velocity
measurements of terrestrial exoplanets in the Habitable Zone of Sun-like stars.
At the same time, this experiment will serve as the technical pathfinder and
facility core for a second-phase larger facility at the Medium scale, which can
provide a significant detection of cosmological redshift drift on a 6-year
timescale. This larger facility will naturally provide further detection/study
of Earth twin planet systems as part of its external calibration process. This
experiment is fundamentally enabled by a novel low-cost telescope technology
called PolyOculus, which harnesses recent advances in commercial off the shelf
equipment (telescopes, CCD cameras, and control computers) combined with a
novel optical architecture to produce telescope collecting areas equivalent to
standard telescopes with large mirror diameters. Combining a PolyOculus array
with an actively-stabilized high-precision radial velocity spectrograph
provides a unique facility with novel calibration features to achieve the
performance requirements for the Cosmic Accelerometer.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1907.09027v1
Better support for collaborations preparing for large-scale projects:
  the case study of the LSST Science Collaborations Astro2020 APC White Paper
Through the lens of the LSST Science Collaborations' experience, this paper
advocates for new and improved ways to fund large, complex collaborations at
the interface of data science and astrophysics as they work in preparation for
and on peta-scale, complex surveys, of which LSST is a prime example. We
advocate for the establishment of programs to support both research and
infrastructure development that enables innovative collaborative research on
such scales.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1907.13202v1
Astro2020 APC White Paper: Tying Research Funding to Progress on
  Inclusion
The US professional astronomy and astrophysics fields are not representative
of the diversity of people in the nation. For example, 2017 AIP reports show
that in 2014, women made up only about 20 percent of the faculty in astronomy
and physics departments, and the numbers for under-represented minorities (men
and women) were, and remain, low. However numerous studies have demonstrated
that diverse groups (in both cognition and identity) outperform groups that are
more homogeneous, even when the homogeneous group is comprised of all "high
achieving experts." (Hong and Page, 2004, Kleinberg and Raghu, 2018). This has
been shown to be the case on a variety of complex tasks. Thus, if we want the
best opportunity to make progress on and answer the research questions of the
2020s, we must employ diverse teams who bring different heuristics and
perspectives to those problems. However, currently in the field there are few
tangible motivations to encourage projects, missions or programs to employ
teams that are diverse in both cognitive areas and identity to take on these
complex problems. Managing groups and organizations contracted to run these
efforts are currently not required or incentivized to employ an identity
diverse workforce.
  In this position (white) paper, we recommend that agency funding (from NSF,
NASA, DOE, etc.), especially for missions, projects and programs, encourage the
development and retention of diverse teams by requiring documentation of and
progress on metrics related to diversity, inclusion and equity. We further
recommend that documented progress on diversity and inclusion metrics should be
monitored in reviews alongside project management and budget reporting.
Managing groups and organizations proposing to administer projects on behalf of
agencies should be required to demonstrate competency with respect to diversity
and inclusion metrics.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1908.00369v1
Using Artificial Intelligence to Augment Science Prioritization for
  Astro2020
Science funding agencies (NASA, DOE, and NSF), the science community, and the
US taxpayer have all benefited enormously from the several-decade series of
National Academies Decadal Surveys. These Surveys are one of the primary means
whereby these agencies may align multi-year strategic priorities and funding to
guide the scientific community. They comprise highly regarded subject matter
experts whose goal is to develop a set of science and program priorities that
are recommended for major investments in the subsequent 10+ years. They do this
using both their own professional knowledge and by synthesizing details from
many thousands of existing and solicited documents.
  Congress, the relevant funding agencies, and the scientific community have
placed great respect and value on these recommendations. Consequently, any
significant changes to the process of determining these recommendations should
be scrutinized carefully. That said, we believe that there is currently
sufficient justification for the National Academies to consider some changes.
We advocate that they supplement the established survey process with
predictions of promising science priorities identified by application of
current Artificial Intelligence (AI) techniques These techniques are being
applied elsewhere in long-range planning and prioritization.
  We present a proposal to apply AI to aid the Decadal Survey panel in
prioritizing science objectives. We emphasize that while AI can assist a mass
review of papers, the decision-making remains with humans. In our paper below
we summarize the case for using AI in this manner and suggest small inexpensive
demonstration trials, including an AI/ML assessment of the white papers
submitted to Astro2020 and backcasting to evaluate AI in making predictions for
the 2010 Decadal Survey.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1908.00589v1
Astro2020 APC White Paper: Findings and Recommendations from the AAS
  Committee on the Status of Women in Astronomy: Towards Eliminating Harassment
  in Astronomy
The Committee on the Status of Women in Astronomy (CSWA) is calling on
federal science funding agencies, in their role as the largest sources of
funding for astronomy in the United States, to take actions that will end
harassment, particularly sexual harassment, in astronomical workplaces. Funding
agencies can and should lead the charge to end harassment in astronomy by the
2030 Astrophysics Decadal Survey. Anecdotal and quantitative evidence, gathered
both by the CSWA and other groups, shows that harassment is prevalent and
damaging for women and minority astronomers and those in related fields.
Actions recommended herein will increase the rate of reporting of harassment to
agencies and improve their ability to investigate and take action against
harassers. We also recommend that agencies participate in harassment prevention
by creating and implementing the best anti-harassment education possible.
  Key recommendations are:
  - Federal agencies should improve their ethics policies by making harassment
a form of scientific misconduct.
  - Federal agencies should mandate that institutions report to them when a
funded Principal Investigator (PI) or co-Principal Investigator (co-PI) is
found to be a perpetrator of harassment.
  - Federal funding agencies should provide online guides to help scientists
identify harassment and connect them to the right resources for making
confidential or official reports.
  - Federal agencies should create and ensure the implementation of
anti-harassment trainings by making them a requirement of receiving grant
funding.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1910.01259v1
Joint Survey Processing of LSST, Euclid and WFIRST: Enabling a broad
  array of astrophysics and cosmology through pixel level combinations of
  datasets
Joint survey processing (JSP) is the pixel level combination of LSST, Euclid,
and WFIRST datasets. By combining the high spatial resolution of the
space-based datasets with deep, seeing-limited, ground-based images in the
optical bands, systematics like source confusion and astrometric mismatch can
be addressed to derive the highest precision optical/infrared photometric
catalogs. This white paper highlights the scientific motivation, computational
and algorithmic needs to build joint pixel level processing capabilities, which
the individual projects by themselves will not be able to support. Through this
white paper, we request that the Astro2020 decadal committee recognize the JSP
effort as a multi-agency project with the natural outcome being a collaborative
effort among groups which are normally supported by a single agency. JSP will
allow the U.S. (and international) astronomical community to manipulate the
flagship data sets and undertake innovative science investigations ranging from
solar system object characterization, exoplanet detections, nearby galaxy
rotation rates and dark matter properties, to epoch of reionization studies. It
will also result in the ultimate constraints on cosmological parameters and the
nature of dark energy, with far smaller uncertainties and a better handle on
systematics than by any one survey alone.

http://arxiv.org/abs/2002.12714v1
CMB-HD: Astro2020 RFI Response
CMB-HD is a proposed ultra-deep (0.5 uk-arcmin), high-resolution (15
arcseconds) millimeter-wave survey over half the sky that would answer many
outstanding questions in both fundamental physics of the Universe and
astrophysics. This survey would be delivered in 7.5 years of observing 20,000
square degrees, using two new 30-meter-class off-axis cross-Dragone telescopes
to be located at Cerro Toco in the Atacama Desert. Each telescope would field
800,000 detectors (200,000 pixels), for a total of 1.6 million detectors.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1902.10159v1
The Role of Machine Learning in the Next Decade of Cosmology
In recent years, machine learning (ML) methods have remarkably improved how
cosmologists can interpret data. The next decade will bring new opportunities
for data-driven cosmological discovery, but will also present new challenges
for adopting ML methodologies and understanding the results. ML could transform
our field, but this transformation will require the astronomy community to both
foster and promote interdisciplinary research endeavors.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.00297v1
From Dark Energy to Exolife: Improving the Digital Information
  Infrastructure for Astrophysics
Some of the most exciting and promising areas of Astronomy research today are
found at the boundaries of the discipline: the search for Exoplanets and
Multi-Messenger Astronomy. In order to achieve breakthroughs in these research
fields over the next decade, innovation and expansion of the digital
information infrastructure which supports this research is required. Astronomy
has been well-served by the existence of an open, distributed network of data
centers and archives. However, institutional barriers and differing research
cultures have prevented cross-disciplinary collaborations, creating fragmented
knowledge and stove-piped research activities. This must change in order for
the broader community of scientists to work together and solve our most
ambitious decadal challenges. Interdisciplinary inquiry is best supported by
bringing researchers together at the information discovery level. In order to
cross the traditional disciplinary silos we must allow scientists both to
explore new ideas and to gain access to new data and knowledge. This is best
enabled by providing discovery platforms which allow them to explore and
connect different research threads in the literature, identify communities of
experts, access and analyze the related published datasets, measurements and
catalogs.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.02781v1
Tests of General Relativity and Fundamental Physics with Space-based
  Gravitational Wave Detectors
Low-frequency gravitational-wave astronomy can perform precision tests of
general relativity and probe fundamental physics in a regime previously
inaccessible. A space-based detector will be a formidable tool to explore
gravity's role in the cosmos, potentially telling us if and where Einstein's
theory fails and providing clues about some of the greatest mysteries in
physics and astronomy, such as dark matter and the origin of the Universe.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.03628v1
Astro2020 Science White Paper: A proposal to exploit galaxy-21cm
  synergies to shed light on the Epoch of Reionization
This white paper highlights the crucial and urgent synergies required between
WFIRST, Subaru Hyper Suprime-Cam or other >25m-class telescopes galaxy
observations and SKA 21cm measurements to constrain the nature of reionization
(ionization history and topology) and its sources.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.03689v1
Neutrino Mass from Cosmology: Probing Physics Beyond the Standard Model
Recent advances in cosmic observations have brought us to the verge of
discovery of the absolute scale of neutrino masses. Nonzero neutrino masses are
known evidence of new physics beyond the Standard Model. Our understanding of
the clustering of matter in the presence of massive neutrinos has significantly
improved over the past decade, yielding cosmological constraints that are
tighter than any laboratory experiment, and which will improve significantly
over the next decade, resulting in a guaranteed detection of the absolute
neutrino mass scale.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04065v1
Accretion in Stellar-Mass Black Holes at High X-ray Spectral Resolution
Accretion disks around stellar-mass black holes offer unique opportunities to
study the fundamental physics of standard thin disks, super-Eddington disks,
and structure that may be connected to flux variability. These local analogues
of active galactic nuclei (AGN) are particularly attractive for their
proximity, high flux, and peak emissivity in the X-ray band. X-ray calorimeter
spectrometers, with energy resolutions of 2-5 eV, are ideally suited to study
accretion in stellar-mass black holes. The results will make strong tests of
seminal disk theory that applies in a broad range of circumstances, help to
drive new numerical simulations, and will inform our understanding of AGN
fueling, evolution, and feedback.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04333v2
Fundamental Physics with High-Energy Cosmic Neutrinos
High-energy cosmic neutrinos can reveal new fundamental particles and
interactions, probing energy and distance scales far exceeding those accessible
in the laboratory. This white paper describes the outstanding particle physics
questions that high-energy cosmic neutrinos can address in the coming decade. A
companion white paper discusses how the observation of cosmic neutrinos can
address open questions in astrophysics. Tests of fundamental physics using
high-energy cosmic neutrinos will be enabled by detailed measurements of their
energy spectrum, arrival directions, flavor composition, and timing.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04334v2
Astrophysics Uniquely Enabled by Observations of High-Energy Cosmic
  Neutrinos
High-energy cosmic neutrinos carry unique information about the most
energetic non-thermal sources in the Universe. This white paper describes the
outstanding astrophysics questions that neutrino astronomy can address in the
coming decade. A companion white paper discusses how the observation of cosmic
neutrinos can address open questions in fundamental physics. Detailed
measurements of the diffuse neutrino flux, measurements of neutrinos from point
sources, and multi-messenger observations with neutrinos will enable the
discovery and characterization of the most energetic sources in the Universe.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04482v1
Tracing the Origins and Evolution of Small Planets using Their Orbital
  Obliquities
We recommend an intensive effort to survey and understand the obliquity
distribution of small close-in extrasolar planets over the coming decade. The
orbital obliquities of exoplanets--i.e., the relative orientation between the
planetary orbit and the stellar rotation--is a key tracer of how planets form
and migrate. While the orbital obliquities of smaller planets are poorly
explored today, a new generation of facilities coming online over the next
decade will make such observations possible en masse. Transit spectroscopic
observations with the extremely large telescopes will enable us to measure the
orbital obliquities of planets as small as $\sim2R_{\oplus}$ around a wide
variety of stars, opening a window into the orbital properties of the most
common types of planets. This effort will directly contribute to understanding
the formation and evolution of planetary systems, a key objective of the
National Academy of Sciences' Exoplanet Science Strategies report.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04559v1
Identification and characterization of the host stars in planetary
  microlensing with ELTs
Microlensing offers a unique opportunity to probe exoplanets that are
temperate and beyond the snow line, as small as Jovian satellites, at
extragalactic distance, and even free floating exoplanets, regimes where the
sensitivity of other methods drops dramatically. This is because microlensing
does not depend on the brightness of the planetary host star. The microlensing
method thus provides great leverage in studying the exoplanets beyond the snow
line, posing tests to the core accretion mechanism, especially on the run-away
phase of gas accretion to form giant planets. Here we propose to robustly and
routinely measure the masses of exoplanets beyond 1 AU from their host stars
with the microlensing method; our experiment relies on directly imaging and
resolving the host star (namely the lens) from the background source of the
microlensing events, which requires the high spatial resolution delivered by
the ELTs. A direct result from this project will be planet occurrence rate
beyond the snow line, which will enable us to discern different planet
formation mechanisms.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04647v1
Probing Feedback in Galaxy Formation with Millimeter-wave Observations
Achieving a precise understanding of galaxy formation in a cosmological
context is one of the great challenges in theoretical astrophysics, due to the
vast range of spatial scales involved in the relevant physical processes.
Observations in the millimeter bands, particularly those using the cosmic
microwave background (CMB) radiation as a "backlight", provide a unique probe
of the thermodynamics of these processes, with the capability to directly
measure the density, pressure, and temperature of ionized gas. Moreover, these
observations have uniquely high sensitivity into the outskirts of the halos of
galaxies and clusters, including systems at high redshift. In the next decade,
the combination of large spectroscopic and photometric optical galaxy surveys
and wide-field, low-noise CMB surveys will transform our understanding of
galaxy formation via these probes.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04648v1
Determining the Equation of State of Cold, Dense Matter with X-ray
  Observations of Neutron Stars
The unknown state of matter at ultra-high density, large proton/neutron
number asymmetry, and low temperature is a major long-standing problem in
modern physics. Neutron stars provide the only known setting in the Universe
where matter in this regime can stably exist. Valuable information about the
interior structure of neutron stars can be extracted via sensitive observations
of their exteriors. There are several complementary techniques that require
different combinations of high time resolution, superb spectral resolution, and
high spatial resolution. In the upcoming decade and beyond, measurements of the
masses and radii of an ensemble of neutron stars using these techniques, based
on data from multiple proposed next-generation X-ray telescopes, can produce
definitive empirical constraints on the allowed dense matter equation of state.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04660v1
High Angular Resolution Astrophysics: Resolving Stellar Surface Features
We are now in an era where we can image details on the surfaces of stars.
When resolving stellar surfaces, we see that every surface is uniquely
complicated. Each imaged star provides insight into not only the stellar
surface structures, but also the stellar interiors suggesting constraints on
evolution and dynamo models. As more resources become operational in the coming
years, imaging stellar surfaces should become commonplace for revealing the
true nature of stars. Here, we discuss the main types of stars for which
imaging surface features is currently useful and what improved observing
techniques would provide for imaging stellar surface features.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04700v1
Probing the origin of our Universe through cosmic microwave background
  constraints on gravitational waves
The next generation of instruments designed to measure the polarization of
the cosmic microwave background (CMB) will provide a historic opportunity to
open the gravitational wave window to the primordial Universe. Through high
sensitivity searches for primordial gravitational waves, and tighter limits on
the energy released in processes like phase transitions, the CMB polarization
data of the next decade has the potential to transform our understanding of the
laws of physics underlying the formation of the Universe.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05107v1
Star Formation in Different Environments: The Initial Mass Function
The stellar initial mass function (IMF) is a fundamental property of star
formation, offering key insight into the physics driving the process as well as
informing our understanding of stellar populations, their by-products, and
their impact on the surrounding medium. While the IMF appears to be fairly
uniform in the Milky Way disk, it is not yet known how the IMF might behave
across a wide range of environments, such as those with extreme gas
temperatures and densities, high pressures, and low metallicities. We discuss
new opportunities for measuring the IMF in such environments in the coming
decade with JWST, WFIRST, and thirty-meter class telescopes. For the first
time, we will be able to measure the high-mass slope and peak of the IMF via
direct star counts for massive star clusters across the Milky Way and Local
Group, providing stringent constraints for star formation theory and laying the
groundwork for understanding distant and unresolved stellar systems.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05140v1
Cosmological Probes of Dark Matter Interactions: The Next Decade
Cosmological observations offer unique and robust avenues for probing the
fundamental nature of dark matter particles-they broadly test a range of
compelling theoretical scenarios, often surpassing or complementing the reach
of terrestrial and other experiments. We discuss observational and theoretical
advancements that will play a pivotal role in realizing a strong program of
cosmological searches for the identity of dark matter in the coming decade.
Specifically, we focus on measurements of the cosmic-microwave-background
anisotropy and spectral distortions, and tracers of structure (such as the
Lyman-$\alpha$ forest, galaxies, and the cosmological 21-cm signal).

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05199v1
Studying the Reionization Epoch with QSO Absorption Lines
Absorption signatures in the spectra of QSOs are one of our most powerful
tools for studying galactic and intergalactic environments at high redshifts.
With the discovery of QSOs out to z > 7, QSO absorption lines are now tracing
the end stages of reionization on multiple fronts using the hydrogen
Lyman-$\alpha$ forest and heavy element absorbers. Next-generation QSO
absorption line studies with large optical/IR telescopes will reveal in detail
how the first galaxies emerged form the cosmic web, transformed their circum-
and inter-galactic environments, and completed the last major phase transition
of the Universe. These efforts will complement other upcoming studies of
reionization, such as those with JWST, ALMA, and redshifted 21cm experiments.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05235v1
Walking along Cosmic History: Metal-poor Massive Stars
Multiple generations of massive stars have lived and died during Cosmic
History, invigorating host galaxies with ionizing photons, kinetic energy,
fresh material and stellar-size black holes. At present, massive stars in the
Small Magellanic Cloud (SMC) serve as templates for low-metallicity objects in
the early Universe. However, recent results have highlighted important
differences in the evolution, death and feedback of massive stars with poorer
metal content that better matches the extremely low metallicity of previous
Cosmic epochs. This paper proposes to supersede the SMC standard with a new
metallicity ladder built from very metal-poor galaxies, and provides a brief
overview of the technological facilities needed to this aim.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05287v1
X-ray follow-up of extragalactic transients
Most violent and energetic processes in our universe, including mergers of
compact objects, explosions of massive stars and extreme accretion events,
produce copious amounts of X-rays. X-ray follow-up is an efficient tool for
identifying transients because (1) X-rays can quickly localize transients with
large error circles, and (2) X-rays reveal the nature of transients that may
not have unique signatures at other wavelengths. In this white paper, we
identify key science questions about several extragalactic multi-messenger and
multi-wavelength transients, and demonstrate how X-ray follow-up helps answer
these questions

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05656v1
Direct Acceleration: Cosmic and Exoplanet Synergies
Direct measurement of acceleration is a key scientific goal for both
cosmology and exoplanets. For cosmology, the concept of redshift drift (more
than 60 years old by the 2020s) could directly establish the
Friedmann-Lema{\^\i}tre-Robertson-Walker model. It would increase the dark
energy figure of merit by a factor of 3 beyond Stage 4 experiments, in
combination with cosmic microwave background measurements. For exoplanets, the
same technology required provides unprecedented radial velocity accuracy,
enabling detection of Earth mass planets in the habitable zone. Other science
cases include mapping the Milky Way gravitational potential and testing its
dark matter distribution.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05718v1
EUV influences on exoplanet atmospheric stability and evolution
The planetary effective surface temperature alone is insufficient to
characterize exoplanet atmospheres and their stability or evolution.
Considering the star-planet system as a whole is necessary, and a critical
component of the system is the photoionizing stellar extreme ultraviolet
emission (EUV; 100-912 {\AA}). EUV photons drive atmospheric mass loss through
thermal and nonthermal processes, and an accurate accounting of the EUV energy
deposition in a planet's energy budget is essential, especially for terrestrial
habitable zone planets and close-in gaseous planets. Direct EUV observations of
exoplanet host stars would require a new, dedicated observatory. Archival
observations from the $\textit{EUVE}$ satellite, models, and theory alone are
insufficient to accurately characterize EUV spectra of the majority of
exoplanet host stars, especially for low-mass stars.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05719v1
EUV observations of cool dwarf stars
The EUV (100-912 {\AA}) is a spectral region notoriously difficult to observe
due to attenuation by neutral hydrogen gas in the interstellar medium. Despite
this, hundreds to thousands of nearby stars of different spectral types and
magnetic activity levels are accessible in the EUV range. The EUV probes
interesting and complicated regions in the stellar atmosphere like the lower
corona and transition region that are inaccessible from other spectral regions.
In this white paper we describe how direct EUV observations, which require a
dedicated grazing-incidence observatory, cannot yet be accurately substituted
with models and theory. Exploring EUV emission from cool dwarf stars in the
time domain can make a major contribution to understanding stellar outer
atmospheres and magnetism, and offers the clearest path toward detecting
coronal mass ejections on stars other than the Sun.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05834v2
Ultraviolet Spectropolarimetry as a Tool for Understanding the Diversity
  of Exoplanetary Atmospheres
The polarization state of starlight reflected by a planetary atmosphere
uniquely reveals coverage, particle size, and composition of aerosols as well
as changing cloud patterns. It is not possible to obtain a comparable level of
detailed from flux-only observations. Furthermore, polarization observations
can probe the atmosphere of planets independently of the orbital geometry
(i.e., transiting and non-transiting planets). We show that a high-resolution
spectropolarimeter with a broad wavelength coverage, particularly if attached
to a large space telescope, would enable simultaneous study of the polarimetric
exoplanet properties of the continuum and to look for and characterize the
polarimetric signal due to scattering from single molecules.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.06238v1
Mapping Galaxy Clusters in the Distant Universe
We present the science case for mapping several thousand galaxy
(proto)clusters at z=1-10 with a large aperture single dish sub-mm facility,
producing a high-redshift counterpart to local large surveys of rich clusters
like the well-studied Abell catalogue. Principal goals of a large survey of
distant clusters are the evolution of galaxy clusters over cosmic time and the
impact of environment on the evolution and formation of galaxies. To make a big
leap forward in this emerging research field, the community would benefit from
a large-format, wide-band, direct-detection spectrometer (e.g., based on MKID
technology), covering a wide field of ~1 square degree and a frequency coverage
from 70 to 700 GHz.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.06509v1
Stellar physics with high-resolution UV spectropolarimetry
Current burning issues in stellar physics, for both hot and cool stars,
concern their magnetism. In hot stars, stable magnetic fields of fossil origin
impact their stellar structure and circumstellar environment, with a likely
major role in stellar evolution. However, this role is complex and thus poorly
understood as of today. It needs to be quantified with high-resolution UV
spectropolarimetric measurements. In cool stars, UV spectropolarimetry would
provide access to the structure and magnetic field of the very dynamic upper
stellar atmosphere, providing key data for new progress to be made on the role
of magnetic fields in heating the upper atmospheres, launching stellar winds,
and more generally in the interaction of cool stars with their environment
(circumstellar disk, planets) along their whole evolution.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.06526v2
Radio Pulsar Populations
Our understanding of the neutron star population is informed to a great
degree by large-scale surveys that have been carried out by radio facilities
during the past fifty years. We summarize some of the recent breakthroughs in
our understanding of the radio pulsar population and look ahead to future
yields from upcoming experiments planned for the next decade. By the end of the
2020s, we anticipate a much more complete census of the Galactic population and
being able to probe the populations of radio-emitting neutron stars more
effectively in external galaxies. Among the anticipated discoveries are
pulsar--black hole binary systems that will provide further tests of
strong-field gravity, as well as large numbers of millisecond pulsars that are
crucial to enhancing the sensitivity of timing arrays for low-frequency
gravitational waves.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.06535v1
Fast Radio Burst Tomography of the Unseen Universe
The discovery of Fast Radio Bursts (FRBs) at cosmological distances has
opened a powerful window on otherwise unseen matter in the Universe. In the
2020s, observations of $>10^{4}$ FRBs will assess the baryon contents and
physical conditions in the hot/diffuse circumgalactic, intracluster, and
intergalactic medium, and test extant compact-object dark matter models.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.06550v1
Searching for Technosignatures: Implications of Detection and
  Non-Detection
The search for technosignatures from the Galaxy or the nearby universe raises
two main questions: What are the possible characteristics of technosignatures?
and How can future searches be optimized to enhance the probability of
detection? Addressing these questions requires an interdisciplinary approach,
combining i) the study of Anthropocene as a planetary transition and thus a
possible proxy also for other planets, ii) the active search for
technosignatures in the radio/optical and infrared range, and iii) the
statistical modelling of technosignatures and Bayesian inference methods to
learn from both detection and non-detection. This strategy (combining modelling
and observations) offers the best scientific opportunity in the next decade to
discover the possible existence of technological civilizations beyond Earth.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.06587v1
The trail of water and the delivery of volatiles to habitable planets
Water is fundamental to our understanding of the evolution of planetary
systems and the delivery of volatiles to the surfaces of potentially habitable
planets. Yet, we currently have essentially no facilities capable of observing
this key species comprehensively. With this white paper, we argue that we need
a relatively large, cold space-based observatory equipped with a
high-resolution spectrometer, in the mid- through far-infrared wavelength range
(25-600~$\mu$m) in order to answer basic questions about planet formation, such
as where the Earth got its water, how giant planets and planetesimals grow, and
whether water is generally available to planets forming in the habitable zone
of their host stars.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.06629v1
Towards a high accuracy measurement of the local black hole occupation
  fraction in low mass galaxies
This document illustrates the feasibility of a few per cent level measurement
of the local black hole occupation fraction in low mass galaxies through
wide-field, high angular resolution X-ray imaging observations of local volume
galaxies. The occupation fraction, particularly at the low end of the galaxy
luminosity function, is a key benchmark for any model which aims to reproduce
the formation and growth of super-massive black holes and their host galaxies.
Our proposed measurement will complement orthogonal efforts that are planned in
X-rays at high red-shifts, as well as in the local Universe with ground-based
facilities.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.06691v1
Astro2020 White Paper: The L/T Transition
The L/T transition is an important evolutionary phase in brown dwarf
atmospheres, providing us with a unique opportunity to explore the effects of
clouds, convection, winds, gravity and metallicity across a very narrow
temperature range. Understanding these physical processes is critical for
understanding ultracool atmospheres. In the next decade, we will answer three
key questions regarding L/T transition atmospheres: 1. What is the physical
mechanism behind the L/T transition? 2. What is the spatial extent of
atmospheric structures at the L/T transition? 3. How do gravity and metallicity
affect the L/T transition? The theory and methods developed for brown dwarfs
will be used in the 2030s and beyond for solar-system age giant exoplanets and
eventually habitable zone earth analogues. Developing these techniques now are
crucial.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.06769v1
Hunting for ancient brown dwarfs: the developing field of brown dwarfs
  in globular clusters
The detection of brown dwarfs in globular star clusters will allow us to
break the degeneracies in age, mass and composition that affect our current
models, and therefore to constrain the physics of their atmospheres and
interiors. Furthermore, detecting brown dwarfs will help us constrain the
properties of the clusters themselves, as they carry information about the
clusters' age and dynamics. Great advancements in this field are to be expected
in the next ten years, thanks to the extraordinary sensitivity in the infrared
of upcoming telescopes like JWST and the ELTs.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.06816v1
On the Use of Planetary Science Data for Studying Extrasolar Planets
There is an opportunity to advance both solar system and extrasolar planetary
studies that does not require the construction of new telescopes or new
missions but better use and access to inter-disciplinary data sets. This
approach leverages significant investment from NASA and international space
agencies in exploring this solar system and using those discoveries as "ground
truth" for the study of extrasolar planets. This white paper illustrates the
potential, using phase curves and atmospheric modeling as specific examples. A
key advance required to realize this potential is to enable seamless discovery
and access within and between planetary science and astronomical data sets.
Further, seamless data discovery and access also expands the availability of
science, allowing researchers and students at a variety of institutions,
equipped only with Internet access and a decent computer to conduct
cutting-edge research.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.06834v2
LSST Narrowband Filters
In this white paper, we present the scientific cases for adding narrowband
optical filters to the Large Synoptic Survey Telescope (LSST). LSST is
currently planning to observe the southern sky in 6 broadband optical filters.
Three of the four LSST science themes would benefit from adding narrowband
filter observations. We discuss the technical considerations of using
narrowband filters with the LSST and lay out the scientific impact that would
result on the study of AGB stars, emission line nebula (e.g., supernova
remnants and planetary nebulae), photometric redshifts of galaxies, and the
determination of stellar parameters.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.06944v1
Astro2020 Science White Paper: Synoptic Studies of the Sun as a Key to
  Understanding Stellar Astrospheres
Ground-based solar observations provide key contextual data (i.e., the 'big
picture') to produce a complete description of the only astrosphere we can
study in situ: our Sun's heliosphere. The next decade will see the beginning of
operations of the Daniel K. Inouye Solar Telescope (DKIST). DKIST will join
NASA's Parker Solar Probe and the NASA/ESA Solar Orbital mission, which
together will study our Sun's atmosphere with unprecedented detail. This white
paper outlines the current paradigm for ground-based solar synoptic
observations, and indicates those areas that will benefit from focused
attention.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.07152v1
Characterizing Transiting Exoplanets with JWST Guaranteed Time and ERS
  Observations
We highlight how guaranteed time observations (GTOs) and early release
science (ERS) will advance understanding of exoplanet atmospheres and provide a
glimpse into what transiting exoplanet science will be done with JWST during
its first year of operations. These observations of 27 transiting planets will
deliver significant insights into the compositions, chemistry, clouds, and
thermal profiles of warm-to-hot gas-dominated planets well beyond what we have
learned from HST, Spitzer, and other observatories to date. These data and
insights will in turn inform our understanding of planet formation, atmospheric
transport and climate, and relationships between various properties. Some
insight will likely be gained into rocky planet atmospheres as well. JWST will
be the most important mission for characterizing exoplanet atmospheres in the
2020s, and this should be considered in assessing exoplanet science for the
2020s and 2030s and future facilities.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.07716v1
Engaging Citizen Scientists to Keep Transit Times Fresh and Ensure the
  Efficient Use of Transiting Exoplanet Characterization Missions
This white paper advocates for the creation of a community-wide program to
maintain precise mid-transit times of exoplanets that would likely be targeted
by future platforms. Given the sheer number of targets that will require
careful monitoring between now and the launch of the next generation of
exoplanet characterization missions, this network will initially be devised as
a citizen science project -- focused on the numerous amateur astronomers, small
universities and community colleges and high schools that have access to modest
sized telescopes and off-the-shelf CCDs.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.07760v1
High-Energy Astrophysics in the 2020s and Beyond
With each passing decade, we gain new appreciation for the dynamic,
connected, and often violent nature of the Universe. This reality necessarily
places the study of high-energy processes at the very heart of modern
astrophysics. This White Paper illustrates the central role of high-energy
astrophysics to some of the most pressing astrophysical problems of our time,
the formation/evolution of galaxies, the origin of the heavy elements, star and
planet formation, the emergence of life on exoplanets, and the search for new
physics. We also highlight the new connections that are growing between
astrophysicists and plasma physicists. We end with a discussion of the
challenges that must be addressed to realize the potential of these
connections, including the need for integrated planning across physics and
astronomy programs in multiple agencies, and the need to foster the creativity
and career aspirations of individual scientists in this era of large projects.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.08128v1
The Dynamic Infrared Sky
Opening up the dynamic infrared sky for systematic time-domain exploration
would yield many scientific advances. Multi-messenger pursuits such as
localizing gravitational waves from neutron star mergers and quantifying the
nucleosynthetic yields require the infrared. Another multi-messenger endeavor
that needs infrared surveyors is the study of the much-awaited supernova in our
own Milky Way. Understanding shocks in novae, true rates of supernovae and
stellar mergers are some other examples of stellar evolution and high energy
physics wherein the answers are buried in the infrared. We discuss some of the
challenges in the infrared and pathfinders to overcome them. We conclude with
recommendations on both infrared discovery engines and infrared follow-up
machines that would enable this field to flourish in the next decade.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.08144v2
Where are the Intermediate Mass Black Holes?
Observational evidence has been mounting for the existence of intermediate
mass black holes (IMBHs, 10^2-10^5 Msun), but observing them at all, much less
constraining their masses, is very challenging. In one theorized formation
channel, IMBHs are the seeds for supermassive black holes in the early
universe. As a result, IMBHs are predicted to exist in the local universe in
dwarf galaxies, as well as wandering in more massive galaxy halos. However,
these environments are not conducive to the accretion events or dynamical
signatures that allow us to detect IMBHs. The Laser Interferometer Space
Antenna (LISA) will demystify IMBHs by detecting the mergers of these objects
out to extremely high redshifts, while measuring their masses with extremely
high precision. These observations of merging IMBHs will allow us to constrain
the formation mechanism and subsequent evolution of massive black holes, from
the 'dark ages' to the present day, and reveal the role that IMBHs play in
hierarchical galaxy evolution.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.08381v1
The Promise of Data Science for the Technosignatures Field
This paper outlines some of the possible advancements for the
technosignatures searches using the new methods currently rapidly developing in
computer science, such as machine learning and deep learning. It also showcases
a couple of case studies of large research programs where such methods have
been already successfully implemented with notable results. We consider that
the availability of data from all sky, all the time observations paired with
the latest developments in computational capabilities and algorithms currently
used in artificial intelligence, including automation, will spur an
unprecedented development of the technosignatures search efforts.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.09110v1
Mapping out the time-evolution of exoplanet processes
There are many competing theories and models describing the formation,
migration and evolution of exoplanet systems. As both the precision with which
we can characterize exoplanets and their host stars, and the number of systems
for which we can make such a characterization increase, we begin to see
pathways forward for validating these theories. In this white paper we identify
predicted, observable correlations that are accessible in the near future,
particularly trends in exoplanet populations, radii, orbits and atmospheres
with host star age. By compiling a statistically significant sample of
well-characterized exoplanets with precisely measured ages, we should be able
to begin identifying the dominant processes governing the time-evolution of
exoplanet systems.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.09150v1
Understanding Exoplanet Atmospheres with UV Observations I: NUV and
  Blue/Optical
Much of the focus of exoplanet atmosphere analysis in the coming decade will
be atinfrared wavelengths, with the planned launches of the James Webb Space
Telescope (JWST) and the Wide-Field Infrared Survey Telescope (WFIRST).
However, without being placed in the context of broader wavelength coverage,
especially in the optical and ultraviolet, infrared observations produce an
incomplete picture of exoplanet atmospheres. Scattering information encoded in
blue optical and near-UV observations can help determine whether muted spectral
features observed in the infrared are due to a hazy/cloudy atmosphere, or a
clear atmosphere with a higher mean molecular weight. UV observations can
identify atmospheric escape and mass loss from exoplanet atmospheres, providing
a greater understanding of the atmospheric evolution of exoplanets, along with
composition information from above the cloud deck. In this white paper we focus
on the science case for exoplanet observations in the near-UV; an accompanying
white paper led by Eric Lopez will focus on the science case in the far-UV.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.09187v3
Big Bang Nucleosynthesis and Neutrino Cosmology
There exist a range of exciting scientific opportunities for Big Bang
Nucleosynthesis (BBN) in the coming decade. BBN, a key particle astrophysics
"tool" for decades, is poised to take on new capabilities to probe beyond
standard model (BSM) physics. This development is being driven by experimental
determination of neutrino properties, new nuclear reaction experiments,
advancing supercomputing/simulation capabilities, the prospect of
high-precision next-generation cosmic microwave background (CMB) observations,
and the advent of 30m class telescopes.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.09220v1
Deeper, Wider, Sharper: Next-Generation Ground-Based Gravitational-Wave
  Observations of Binary Black Holes
Next-generation observations will revolutionize our understanding of binary
black holes and will detect new sources, such as intermediate-mass black holes.
Primary science goals include: Discover binary black holes throughout the
observable Universe; Reveal the fundamental properties of black holes; Uncover
the seeds of supermassive black holes.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.09224v1
The Yet-Unobserved Multi-Messenger Gravitational-Wave Universe
Observations with next-generation ground-based detectors further enhanced
with multi-messenger (electromagnetic and neutrino) detections will allow us to
probe new extreme astrophysics. Target sources included: core-collapse
supernovae, continuous emission from isolated or accreting neutron stars, and
bursts from magnetars and other pulsars.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.09301v1
Detecting Offset Active Galactic Nuclei
Gravitational wave (GW) and gravitational slingshot recoil kicks, which are
natural products of SMBH evolution in merging galaxies, can produce active
galactic "nuclei" that are offset from the centers of their host galaxies.
Detections of offset AGN would provide key constraints on SMBH binary mass and
spin evolution and on GW event rates. Although numerous offset AGN candidates
have been identified, none have been definitively confirmed. Multi-wavelength
observations with next-generation telescopes, including systematic large-area
surveys, will provide unprecedented opportunities to identify and confirm
candidate offset AGN from sub-parsec to kiloparsec scales. We highlight ways in
which these observations will open a new avenue for multi-messenger studies in
the dawn of low-frequency (~ nHz - mHz) GW astronomy.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.09356v1
Exploring Active Supermassive Black Holes at 100 Micro-arcsecond
  Resolution
Super-high spatial resolution observations in the infrared are now enabling
major advances in our understanding of supermassive black hole systems at the
centers of galaxies. Infrared interferometry, reaching resolutions of
milliarcseconds to sub-milliarcseconds, is drastically changing our view of the
central structure from a static to a very dynamic one by spatially resolving to
the pc-scale. We are also starting to measure the dynamical structure of fast
moving gas clouds around active supermassive black holes at a scale of less
than a light year. With further improvements on resolution and sensitivity, we
will be able to directly image the exact site of the black hole's feedback to
its host galaxy, and quantify the effect of such interaction processes.
Near-future high angular resolution studies will definitely advance our mass
determinations for these black holes, and we might even witness the existence
of binary black hole systems at the center of galaxies.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.09677v1
Supernova Remnants in High Definition
Supernova remnants (SNRs) offer the means to study SN explosions, dynamics,
and shocks at sub-parsec scales. X-ray observations probe the hot metals
synthesized in the explosion and the TeV electrons accelerated by the shocks,
and thus they are key to test recent, high-fidelity three-dimensional SN
simulations. In this white paper, we discuss the major advances possible with
X-ray spectro-imaging at arcsecond scales, with a few eV spectral resolution
and a large effective area. These capabilities would revolutionize SN science,
offering a three-dimensional view of metals synthesized in explosions and
enabling population studies of SNRs in Local Group galaxies. Moreover, this
future X-ray mission could detect faint, narrow synchrotron filaments and shock
precursors that will constrain the diffusive shock acceleration process.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.09883v1
Scratches from the Past: Inflationary Archaeology through Features in
  the Power Spectrum of Primordial Fluctuations
Inflation may provide unique insight into the physics at the highest
available energy scales that cannot be replicated in any realistic terrestrial
experiment. Features in the primordial power spectrum are generically predicted
in a wide class of models of inflation and its alternatives, and are
observationally one of the most overlooked channels for finding evidence for
non-minimal inflationary models. Constraints from observations of the cosmic
microwave background cover the widest range of feature frequencies, but the
most sensitive constraints will come from future large-scale structure surveys
that can measure the largest number of linear and quasi-linear modes.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.10017v1
Ground-Based Radial Velocity as Critical Support for Future NASA
  Earth-Finding Missions
Future space-based direct imaging missions are poised to search for
biosignatures in the atmospheres of potentially habitable planets orbiting
nearby AFGKM stars. Although these missions could conduct a survey of
high-priority target stars to detect candidate Earth-like planets, conducting a
precursor radial velocity (RV) survey will benefit future direct imaging
missions in four ways. First, an RV survey capable of detecting signals as
small as 8 cm/s over timescales of a few years could discover potentially
habitable Earth-mass planets orbiting dozens of nearby GKM stars accessible to
space-based direct imaging. Second, RVs will improve scheduling efficiency by
reducing the required number of revisits for orbit determination, and revealing
when a planet of interest is most observable. Third, RV observations will
reveal the masses of gas and ice giants that could be mistaken for Earth-mass
planets, thereby reducing the time spent identifying false positives. Fourth,
mass measurements from RVs will provide the surface gravities necessary for
interpreting atmospheric spectra and potential biosignatures.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.10669v1
Understanding Exoplanet Atmospheres with UV Observations II: The Far UV
  and Atmospheric Escape
Much of the focus of exoplanet atmosphere analysis in the coming decade will
be at infrared wavelengths, with the planned launches of the James Webb Space
Telescope (JWST) and the Wide-Field Infrared Survey Telescope (WFIRST).
However, without being placed in the context of broader wavelength coverage,
especially in the optical and ultraviolet, infrared observations produce an
incomplete picture of exoplanet atmospheres. Scattering information encoded in
blue optical and near-UV (NUV) observations can help determine whether muted
spectral features observed in the infrared are due to a hazy/cloudy atmosphere,
or a clear atmosphere with a higher mean molecular weight. Farther into the UV,
observations can identify atmospheric escape and mass loss from exoplanet
atmospheres, providing a greater understanding of the atmospheric evolution of
exoplanets, along with composition information from above the cloud deck. In
this white paper we focus on the science case for exoplanet observations in the
far-UV (FUV); an accompanying white paper led by Jessie Christiansen will focus
on the science case in the near-UV (NUV) and blue/optical.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.11116v1
Multi-Messenger Astrophysics Opportunities with Stellar-Mass Binary
  Black Hole Mergers
The conventional view of stellar-mass binary black hole (sBBH) mergers is
that there should not be enough matter present to produce a detectable
electromagnetic transient. However, there ARE a number of mechanisms for
producing such a counterpart through accretion of matter from various reserves,
charged black holes, or interactions with magnetic or exotic fields. After
reviewing these mechanisms, we describe what we can learn from multi-messenger
observations of sBBH mergers in the areas of stellar evolution and compact
binary formation, cosmological measurements, searches for charged black holes,
and tests of general relativity and fundamental physics. We end with some
remarks about the need to support both observing capabilities and modeling in
the next decade and beyond.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.11630v1
A Survey of Hot Gas in the Universe
A large fraction of the baryons and most of the metals in the Universe are
unaccounted for. They likely lie in extended galaxy halos, galaxy groups, and
the cosmic web, and measuring their nature is essential to understanding galaxy
formation. These environments have virial temperatures >10^5.5 K, so the gas
should be visible in X-rays. Here we show the breakthrough capabilities of
grating spectrometers to 1) detect these reservoirs of hidden metals and mass,
and 2) quantify hot gas flows, turbulence, and rotation around the Milky Way
and external galaxies. Grating spectrometers are essential instruments for
future X-ray missions, and existing technologies provide 50-1500-fold higher
throughput compared to current orbiting instruments.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1904.00052v1
Prospects for Pulsar Studies at MeV Energies
Enabled by the Fermi Large Area Telescope, we now know young and recycled
pulsars fill the gamma-ray sky, and we are beginning to understand their
emission mechanism and their distribution throughout the Galaxy. However, key
questions remain: Is there a large population of pulsars near the Galactic
center? Why do the most energetic pulsars shine so brightly in MeV gamma rays
but not always at GeV energies? What is the source and nature of the pair
plasma in pulsar magnetospheres, and what role does the polar cap accelerator
play? Addressing these questions calls for a sensitive, wide-field MeV
telescope, which can detect the population of MeV-peaked pulsars hinted at by
Fermi and hard X-ray telescopes and characterize their spectral shape and
polarization.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1904.00054v1
Comparing key compositional indicators in Jupiter with those in
  extra-solar giant planets
Spectroscopic transiting observations of the atmospheres of hot Jupiters
around other stars, first with Hubble Space Telescope and then Spitzer, opened
the door to compositional studies of exoplanets. The James Webb Space Telescope
will provide such a profound improvement in signal-to-noise ratio that it will
enable detailed analysis of molecular abundances, including but not limited to
determining abundances of all the major carbon- and oxygen-bearing species in
hot Jupiter atmospheres. This will allow determination of the carbon-to-oxygen
ratio, an essential number for planet formation models and a motivating goal of
the Juno mission currently around Jupiter

http://arxiv.org/abs/1904.00802v1
Extragalactic Proper Motions: Gravitational Waves and Cosmology
Extragalactic proper motions can reveal a variety of cosmological and local
phenomena over a range of angular scales. These include observer-induced proper
motions, such as the secular aberration drift caused by the solar acceleration
about the Galactic Center and secular extragalactic parallax resulting from our
motion with respect to the cosmic microwave background rest frame. Cosmological
effects include the isotropy of the Hubble expansion, transverse peculiar
velocities induced by large scale structure, the real-time evolution of the
baryon acoustic oscillation, and long-period gravitational waves that deflect
light rays, producing an apparent quadrupolar proper motion pattern on the sky.
We review these effects, their imprints on global correlated extragalactic
proper motions, their expected amplitudes, the current best measurements (if
any), and predictions for Gaia. Finally, we describe key ground- and
space-based observational requirements to measure or constrain these proper
motion signals down to amplitudes of $\sim$0.1 $\mu$as yr$^{-1}$, or $\sim$0.7%
of $H_0$.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1904.00803v1
A Formaldehyde Deep Field
Formaldehyde (H2CO) is often observed at centimeter wavelengths as an
absorption line against the cosmic microwave background (CMB). This is possible
when energy level populations are cooled to the point where line excitation
temperatures fall below the local CMB temperature. Collisions with molecular
hydrogen "pump" this anti-maser excitation, and the cm line ratios of H2CO
provide a measurement of the local H2 density. H2CO absorption of CMB light
provides all of the benefits of absorption lines (no distance dimming) but none
of the drawbacks: the CMB provides uniform illumination of all molecular gas in
galaxies (no pencil beam sampling), and all galaxies lie in front of the CMB -
no fortuitous alignments with background light sources are needed. A
formaldehyde deep field (FDF) would therefore provide a blind, mass-limited
survey of molecular gas across the history of star formation and galaxy
evolution. Moreover, the combination of column density and number density
measurements may provide geometric distances in large galaxy samples and at
higher redshifts than can be done using the Sunyaev Zel'dovich effect in galaxy
clusters. We present a fiducial FDF that would span redshifts z=0-7 and provide
H2CO line ratios to measure n(H2) for z > 0.45.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1904.03187v1
Gravitational wave astronomy with LIGO and similar detectors in the next
  decade
We describe the plans for gravitational-wave observations and astrophysics
that will be carried out by the LIGO Scientific Collaboration (LSC) in the next
decade using data from the LIGO Observatories in the US, and sister facilities
abroad in Europe, Japan and India. We provide an overview of gravitational wave
signal types that we are targeting, and the role of gravitational waves in
time-domain multi-messenger astronomy. We briefly summarize what we can infer
from the properties of detected signals, including astrophysical event rates
and populations, tests of gravitational-wave properties, highly-dynamical and
strong-field tests of General Relativity, probing matter under extreme
conditions in neutron stars, and making cosmological measurements with
gravitational-wave sources.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1904.05938v1
Astro 2020 Science White Paper: Cosmic-ray Antinuclei as Messengers for
  Dark Matter
The origin of dark matter is a driving question of modern physics. Low-energy
antideuterons provide a "smoking gun" signature of dark matter annihilation or
decay, essentially free of astrophysical background. Low-energy antiprotons are
a vital partner for this analysis, and low-energy antihelium could provide
further discovery space for new physics. In the coming decade, AMS-02 will
continue accumulating the large statistics and systematic understanding
necessary for it to probe rare antinuclei signatures, and GAPS, which is the
first experiment optimized specifically for low-energy cosmic antinuclei, will
begin several Antarctic balloon campaigns. The connection of cosmic-ray
antinuclei and dark matter is reviewed and the outlook in light of experimental
progress is presented.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1904.06398v1
Emission Line Mapping of the Circumgalactic Medium of Nearby Galaxies
The circumgalactic medium (CGM), which harbors > 50% of all the baryons in a
galaxy, is both the reservoir of gas for subsequent star formation and the
depository of chemically processed gas, energy, and angular momentum from
feedback. As such, the CGM obviously plays a critical role in galaxy evolution.
We discuss the opportunity to image this component using recombination line
emission, beginning with the early results coming from recent statistical
detection of this emission to the final goal of realizing spectral-line images
of the CGM in individual nearby galaxies. Such work will happen in the next
decade and provide new insights on the galactic baryon cycle.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1904.06600v1
High-Resolution X-ray Imaging Studies of Neutron Stars, Pulsar Wind
  Nebulae and Supernova Remnants
Supernova remnants serve as nearby laboratories relevant to many areas in
Astrophysics, from stellar and galaxy evolution to extreme astrophysics and the
formation of the heavy elements in the Universe. The Chandra X-ray mission has
enabled a giant leap forward in studying both SNRs and their compact stellar
remnants on sub-arcsecond scale. However, such high-resolution imaging studies
have been mostly limited to the nearby and/or relatively bright objects. There
is no question that we are missing a large population, especially in external
galaxies. Within our own Galaxy, we are presented with new fundamental
questions related to neutron stars' diversity, kicks, relativistic winds and
the way these objects interact with, and impact, their host environments. In
this white paper, we highlight some of the breakthroughs to be achieved with
future X-ray missions (such as the proposed AXIS probe) equipped with
sub-arcsecond imaging resolution and an order of magnitude improvement in
sensitivity.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1906.04729v2
B-mode Targets
The CMB-S4 Science Book, Astro2020 Science White Paper on gravitational
waves, and PICO report contain an extensive discussion of many ongoing and
planned efforts in the search for gravitational waved produced by inflation.
Here we give a short executive summary of the results obtained in our recent
papers, which specify the simplest available inflationary models providing
physically motivated targets for these searches. Our conclusions are specific
for the $10^{-3} \lesssim r \lesssim 10^{-2}$ range, where we present the
B-mode benchmarks of the U-duality symmetric class of $\alpha$-attractors, and
for $ r \lesssim 10^{-3}$, where we present B-mode targets, for which the
future precision measurements of $n_s$ will be decisive. We show that a
combination of the simplest $\alpha$-attractors and KKLTI models of D-brane
inflation covers most of the area favored by Planck 2018.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1907.04833v1
Cosmic Explorer: The U.S. Contribution to Gravitational-Wave Astronomy
  beyond LIGO
This white paper describes the research and development needed over the next
decade to realize "Cosmic Explorer," the U.S. node of a future third-generation
detector network that will be capable of observing and characterizing compact
gravitational-wave sources to cosmological redshifts.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1907.05191v1
Astro2020 Activity, Project of State of the Profession Consideration
  (APC) White Paper: All-Sky Near Infrared Space Astrometry. State of the
  Profession Considerations: Development of Scanning NIR Detectors for
  Astronomy
Gaia is a revolutionary space mission developed by ESA and is delivering 5
parameter astrometry, photometry and radial velocities over the whole sky with
astrometric accuracies down to a few tens of micro-arcseconds. A weakness of
Gaia is that it only operates at optical wavelengths. However, much of the
Galactic centre and the spiral arm regions, important for certain studies, are
obscured by interstellar extinction and this makes it difficult for Gaia to
deeply probe. This problem can be overcome by switching to the Near Infra-Red
(NIR) but this is not possible with silicon CCDs. Additionally, to scan the
entire sky and make global absolute parallax measurements the spacecraft must
have a constant rotation and this requires the detectors operate in Time
Delayed Integration (TDI) mode or similar.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1907.06234v1
Robust Archives Maximize Scientific Accessibility
We present a bibliographic analysis of Chandra, Hubble, and Spitzer
publications. We find (a) archival data are used in >60% of the publication
output and (b) archives for these missions enable a much broader set of
institutions and countries to scientifically use data from these missions.
Specifically, we find that authors from institutions that have published few
papers from a given mission publish 2/3 archival publications, while those with
many publications typically have 1/3 archival publications. We also show that
countries with lower GDP per capita overwhelmingly produce archival
publications, while countries with higher GDP per capital produce guest
observer and archival publications in equal amounts. We argue that robust
archives are thus not only critical for the scientific productivity of mission
data, but also the scientific accessibility of mission data. We argue that the
astronomical community should support archives to maximize the overall
scientific societal impact of astronomy, and represent an excellent investment
in astronomy's future.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1907.06320v1
Astro2020 APC White Paper: Astronomy should be in the clouds
Commodity cloud computing, as provided by commercial vendors such as Amazon,
Google, and Microsoft, has revolutionized computing in many sectors. With the
advent of a new class of big data, public access astronomical facility such as
LSST, DKIST, and WFIRST, there exists a real opportunity to combine these
missions with cloud computing platforms and fundamentally change the way
astronomical data is collected, processed, archived, and curated. Making these
changes in a cross-mission, coordinated way can provide unprecedented economies
of scale in personnel, data collection and management, archiving, algorithm and
software development and, most importantly, science.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1907.06798v1
Maintaining Capabilities in CCD Production for the Astronomy Community
CCD detectors play a vital role in all aspects of optical astronomy. Critical
to advancing research is the ability to partner with commercial foundries to
produce custom devices that meet the needs of specific instruments. For more
than 20 years, Teledyne DALSA Semiconductor was the primary industrial partner
in the manufacturing of 150 mm wafers for CCDs. DALSA is migrating the
manufacturing from 150mm to 200mm wafer diameter and will not be updating their
CCD processing tools for the new format wafer. As a result, DALSA will no
longer serve as a partner to the astronomy community in the manufacturing of
CCDs. We recommend that the Department of Energy, National Science Foundation,
and NASA jointly pursue a new commercial partner in CCD fabrication to maintain
capabilities in custom CCD design for astronomy applications.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1907.07192v1
The Maunakea Spectroscopic Explorer
The Maunakea Spectroscopic Explorer is a next-generation massively
multiplexed spectroscopic facility currently under development in Hawaii. It is
completely dedicated to large-scale spectroscopic surveys and will enable
transformative science. In this white paper we summarize the science case and
describe the current state of the project.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1907.07634v2
CubeSats for Astronomy and Astrophysics
CubeSats have the potential to expand astrophysical discovery space,
complementing ground-based electromagnetic and gravitational-wave
observatories. The CubeSat design specifications help streamline delivery of
instrument payloads to space. CubeSat planners have more options for tailoring
orbits to fit observational needs and may have more flexibility in rapidly
rescheduling observations to respond to transients. With over 1000 CubeSats
launched, there has been a corresponding increase in the availability and
performance of commercial-off-the-shelf (COTS) components compatible with the
CubeSat standards, from solar panels and power systems to reaction wheels for
three axis stabilization and precision attitude control. Commercially available
components can reduce cost CubeSat missions, allowing more resources to be
directed toward scientific instrument payload development and technology
demonstrations.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1907.07800v1
The Social Sciences Interdisciplinarity for Astronomy and Astrophysics
  -- Lessons from the History of NASA and Related Fields
In this paper we showcase the importance of understanding and measuring
interdisciplinarity and other -disciplinarity concepts for all scientists, the
role social sciences have historically played in NASA research and missions,
the sparsity of social science interdisciplinarity in space and planetary
sciences, including astronomy and astrophysics, while there is an imperative
necessity for it, and the example of interdisciplinarity between social
sciences and astrobiology. Ultimately we give voice to the scientists across
all fields with respect to their needs, aspirations and experiences in their
interdisciplinary work with social sciences through an ad-hoc survey we
conducted within the Astro2020 Decadal Survey scientific community.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1907.07829v1
Technosignatures in the Thermal Infrared
WISE, Gaia, and JWST provide an opportunity to compute the first robust upper
limits on the energy supplies of extraterrestrial civilizations, both for stars
in the Galaxy (Kardashev Type II civilizations) and for other galaxies
(Kardashev Type III civilizations). Together, they allow for a nearly-complete
catalog of nearby stars with infrared excesses, which is valuable for both
stellar astrophysics and searches for technosignatures; and of the MIR
luminosities of galaxies, important for studies of galaxies' star and
star-formation properties, but also for the identification of potential
galaxies endemic with alien technology. JWST will provide the crucial
mid-infrared spectroscopy necessary to identify the origin of these infrared
excesses, advancing both traditional astronomy and searches for
technosignatures. Such signatures are distinguished from dust by their lack of
far-infrared emission and lack of association with star formation.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1907.07830v1
Technosignatures in Transit
Kepler, K2, TESS, and similar time-domain photometric projects, while
designed with exoplanet detection in mind, are also well-suited projects for
searches for large artificial structures orbiting other stars in the Galaxy. An
effort to examine these data sets with an eye towards non-spherical or
otherwise anomalous transit events, and a robust follow-up program to
understand the stars and occulters that generate them, would enable the first
robust upper limits on such megastructures in terms of their sizes, occurrence
rates, and orbital properties. Such work also has the ancillary benefit of
improving our understanding of stellar photometric variability and orbital and
physical parameter estimation of exoplanets from photometric time series, and
may lead to the identification of new, unexpected classes of stellar variables
and exoplanets. Ultimately, searching for the most unusual and anomalous
signatures benefits not only the search for technologies, but also the entire
astronomical community by uncovering new mysteries to advance our understanding
of the Universe.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1907.08727v1
Trinity: An Air-Shower Imaging Instrument to detect Ultrahigh Energy
  Neutrinos
Trinity is a proposed air-shower imaging system optimized for the detection
of earth-skimming ultrahigh energy tau neutrinos with energies between $10^7$
GeV and $10^{10}$ GeV. Trinity will pursue three major scientific objectives.
1) It will narrow in on possible source classes responsible for the
astrophysical neutrino flux measured by IceCube. 2) It will help find the
sources of ultrahigh-energy cosmic rays (UHECR) and understand the composition
of UHECR. 3) It will test fundamental neutrino physics at the highest energies.
Trinity uses the imaging technique, which is well established and successfully
used by the very high-energy gamma-ray community (CTA, H.E.S.S., MAGIC, and
VERITAS) and the UHECR community (Telescope Array, Pierre Auger)

http://arxiv.org/abs/1907.09561v1
The Future of Exoplanet Direct Detection
Diffraction fundamentally limits our ability to image and characterize
exoplanets. Current and planned coronagraphic searches for exoplanets are
making incredible strides but are fundamentally limited by the inner working
angle of a few lambda/D. Some crucial topics, such as demographics of
exoplanets within the first 50 Myr and the infrared characterization of
terrestrial planets, are beyond the reach of the single aperture angular
resolution for the foreseeable future. Interferometry offers some advantages in
exoplanet detection and characterization and we explore in this white paper
some of the potential scientific breakthroughs possible. We demonstrate here
that investments in 'exoplanet interferometry' could open up new possibilities
for speckle suppression through spatial coherence, a giant boost in astrometric
precision for determining exoplanet orbits, ability to take a census of young
giant exoplanets (clusters <50 Myr age), and an unrivaled potential for
infrared nulling from space to detect terrestrial planets and search for
atmospheric biomarkers. All signs point to an exciting future for exoplanets
and interferometers, albeit a promise that will take decades to fulfill.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1907.09564v1
Imaging the Key Stages of Planet Formation
New images of young stars are revolutionizing our understanding of planet
formation. ALMA detects large grains in planet-forming disks with few AU scale
resolution and scattered light imaging with extreme adaptive optics systems
reveal small grains suspended on the disks' flared surfaces. Tantalizing
evidence for young exoplanets is emerging from line observations of CO and
H-alpha. In this white paper, we explore how even higher angular resolution can
extend our understanding of the key stages of planet formation, to resolve
accreting circumplanetary disks themselves, and to watch planets forming in
situ for the nearest star-forming regions. We focus on infrared observations
which are sensitive to thermal emission in the terrestrial planet formation
zone and allow access to molecular tracers in warm ro-vibrational states.
Successful planet formation theories will not only be able to explain the
diverse features seen in disks, but will also be consistent with the rich
exoplanet demographics from RV and transit surveys. While we are far from
exhausting ground-based techniques, the ultimate combination of high angular
resolution and high infrared sensitivity can only be achieved through
mid-infrared space interferometry.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1907.10680v1
The NOAO Mid-Scale Observatories
We describe present and future capabilities of the Mid-Scale Observatories
(MSO) of the new national center merging NOAO, Gemini Observatory and LSST
Operations. MSO is comprised of Cerro Tololo Interamerican Observatory (CTIO)
and the Kitt Peak National Observatory (KPNO). Telescopes at both sites
currently operate on a mix of public and private funding. Recent upgrades have
equipped the MSO 4-m class telescopes to perform world-class surveys in diverse
areas of astrophysics, from dark energy to exoplanets.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1907.13195v1
CMB Spectral Distortions: Status and Prospects
Departures of the energy spectrum of the cosmic microwave background (CMB)
from a perfect blackbody probe a fundamental property of the universe -- its
thermal history. Current upper limits, dating back some 25 years, limit such
spectral distortions to 50 parts per million and provide a foundation for the
Hot Big Bang model of the early universe. Modern upgrades to the 1980's-era
technology behind these limits enable three orders of magnitude or greater
improvement in sensitivity. The standard cosmological model provides compelling
targets at this sensitivity, spanning cosmic history from the decay of
primordial density perturbations to the role of baryonic feedback in structure
formation. Fully utilizing this sensitivity requires concurrent improvements in
our understanding of competing astrophysical foregrounds. We outline a program
using proven technologies capable of detecting the minimal predicted
distortions even for worst-case foreground scenarios.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1908.00664v1
The Data Lab: A Science Platform for the analysis of ground-based
  astronomical survey data
The next decade will feature a growing number of massive ground-based
photometric, spectroscopic, and time-domain surveys, including those produced
by DECam, DESI, and LSST. The NOAO Data Lab was launched in 2017 to enable
efficient exploration and analysis of large surveys, with particular focus on
the petabyte-scale holdings of the NOAO Archive and their associated catalogs.
The Data Lab mission and future development align well with two of the NSF's
Big Ideas, namely Harnessing Data for 21st Century Science and Engineering and
as part of a network to contribute to Windows on the Universe: The Era of
Multi-messenger Astrophysics. Along with other Science Platforms, the Data Lab
will play a key role in scientific discoveries from surveys in the next decade,
and will be crucial to maintaining a level playing field as datasets grow in
size and complexity.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1908.02775v1
Optical and Near-IR Microwave Kinetic Inductance Detectors (MKIDs) in
  the 2020s
Optical and near-IR Microwave Kinetic Inductance Detectors, or MKIDs, are
superconducting photon counting detectors capable of measuring the energy and
arrival time of individual OIR photons without read noise or dark current. In
this whitepaper we will discuss the current status of OIR MKIDs and MKID-based
instruments.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1908.03164v1
Science opportunities enabled by the era of Visible Band Stellar Imaging
  with sub-100 arc-sec angular resolution
This white paper briefly summarizes stellar science opportunities enabled by
ultra-high resolution (sub-100 {\mu} arc-sec) astronomical imaging in the
visible (U/V) wavebands. Next generation arrays of Imaging Cherenkov
telescopes, to be constructed in the next decade, can provide unprecedented
visible band imaging of several thousand bright (m< 6), hot (O/B/A) stars using
a modern implementation of Stellar Intensity Interferometry (SII). This white
paper describes the astrophysics/astronomy science opportunities that may be
uncovered in this new observation space during the next decade.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1908.05356v2
The NANOGrav Program for Gravitational Waves and Fundamental Physics
We describe the North American Nanohertz Observatory for Gravitational Waves
(NANOGrav) and its efforts to directly detect and study gravitational waves and
other synergistic physics and astrophysics using radio timing observations of
millisecond pulsars.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1909.01408v1
Extremely long baseline interferometry with Origins Space Telescope
Operating 1.5 million km from Earth at the Sun-Earth L2 Lagrange point, the
Origins Space Telescope equipped with a slightly modified version of its HERO
heterodyne instrument could function as a uniquely valuable node in a VLBI
network. The unprecedented angular resolution resulting from the combination of
Origins with existing ground-based millimeter/submillimeter telescope arrays
would increase the number of spatially resolvable black holes by a factor of a
million, permit the study of these black holes across all of cosmic history,
and enable new tests of general relativity by unveiling the photon ring
substructure in the nearest black holes.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1909.10996v1
Enhancing Conference Participation to Bridge the Diversity Gap
Conference attendance is fundamental for a successful career in astronomy.
However, many factors limit such attendance in ways that can disproportionately
affect women and minorities more. In this white paper, we present the results
of a survey sent to 164 research staff at the Space Telescope Science Institute
to determine what reasons motivate their attendance at science conferences and
what aspects prevent researchers from attending them. The information collected
through this survey was used to identify trends both in aggregate form and
split by gender and if respondents had dependents. We propose a set of
recommendations and best practices formulated by analyzing these trends. If
consistently adopted, these recommendations will achieve greater diversity in
astronomy through the broadening of conference participation.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1912.06219v1
The LUVOIR Mission Concept Study Final Report
The Large UV/Optical/Infrared Surveyor (LUVOIR) mission is one of four
Decadal Survey Mission Concepts studied by NASA in preparation for the US
National Academies' Astro2020 Decadal Survey. This observatory has the major
goal of characterizing a wide range of exoplanets, including those that might
be habitable -- or even inhabited. It would simultaneously enable a great leap
forward in a broad range of astrophysics -- from the epoch of reionization,
through galaxy formation and evolution, to star and planet formation. Powerful
remote sensing observations of Solar System bodies will also be possible. This
Final Report on the LUVOIR study presents the scientific motivations and goals
of the mission concept, the engineering design, and technology development
information. Please refer to the LUVOIR Final Report Appendices (separate
document) for additional information.

http://arxiv.org/abs/2001.00674v1
Reframing astronomical research through an anticolonial lens -- for TMT
  and beyond
This white paper explains that professional astronomy has benefited from
settler colonial white supremacist patriarchy. We explicate the impact that
this has had on communities which are not the beneficiaries of colonialism and
white supremacy. We advocate for astronomers to reject these benefits in the
future, and we make proposals regarding the steps involved in rejecting
colonialist white supremacy's benefits. We center ten recommendations on the
timely issue of what to do about the Thirty Meter Telescope (TMT) on Maunakea
in Hawaii. This paper is written in solidarity with and support of efforts by
Native Hawaiian scientists (e.g. Kahanamoku et al. 2019).

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05644v1
Understanding the circumgalactic medium is critical for understanding
  galaxy evolution
Galaxies evolve under the influence of gas flows between their interstellar
medium and their surrounding gaseous halos known as the circumgalactic medium
(CGM). The CGM is a major reservoir of galactic baryons and metals, and plays a
key role in the long cycles of accretion, feedback, and recycling of gas that
drive star formation. In order to fully understand the physical processes at
work within galaxies, it is therefore essential to have a firm understanding of
the composition, structure, kinematics, thermodynamics, and evolution of the
CGM. In this white paper we outline connections between the CGM and galactic
star formation histories, internal kinematics, chemical evolution, quenching,
satellite evolution, dark matter halo occupation, and the reionization of the
larger-scale intergalactic medium in light of the advances that will be made on
these topics in the 2020s. We argue that, in the next decade, fundamental
progress on all of these major issues depends critically on improved empirical
characterization and theoretical understanding of the CGM. In particular, we
discuss how future advances in spatially-resolved CGM observations at high
spectral resolution, broader characterization of the CGM across galaxy mass and
redshift, and expected breakthroughs in cosmological hydrodynamic simulations
will help resolve these major problems in galaxy evolution.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.06796v1
Astro2020 Science White Paper: The Next Decade of Astroinformatics and
  Astrostatistics
Over the past century, major advances in astronomy and astrophysics have been
largely driven by improvements in instrumentation and data collection. With the
amassing of high quality data from new telescopes, and especially with the
advent of deep and large astronomical surveys, it is becoming clear that future
advances will also rely heavily on how those data are analyzed and interpreted.
New methodologies derived from advances in statistics, computer science, and
machine learning are beginning to be employed in sophisticated investigations
that are not only bringing forth new discoveries, but are placing them on a
solid footing. Progress in wide-field sky surveys, interferometric imaging,
precision cosmology, exoplanet detection and characterization, and many
subfields of stellar, Galactic and extragalactic astronomy, has resulted in
complex data analysis challenges that must be solved to perform scientific
inference. Research in astrostatistics and astroinformatics will be necessary
to develop the state-of-the-art methodology needed in astronomy. Overcoming
these challenges requires dedicated, interdisciplinary research. We recommend:
(1) increasing funding for interdisciplinary projects in astrostatistics and
astroinformatics; (2) dedicating space and time at conferences for
interdisciplinary research and promotion; (3) developing sustainable funding
for long-term astrostatisics appointments; and (4) funding infrastructure
development for data archives and archive support, state-of-the-art algorithms,
and efficient computing.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1904.01074v1
Astro2020 Science White Paper: Construction of an L* Galaxy: the
  Transformative Power of Wide Fields for Revealing the Past, Present and
  Future of the Great Andromeda System
The Great Andromeda Galaxy (M31) is the nexus of the near-far galaxy
evolution connection and a principal data point for near-field cosmology. Due
to its proximity (780 kpc), M31 can be resolved into individual stars like the
Milky Way (MW). Unlike the MW, we have the advantage of a global view of M31,
enabling M31 to be observed with techniques that also apply to more distant
galaxies. Moreover, recent evidence suggests that M31 may have survived a major
merger within the last several Gyr, shaping the morphology of its stellar halo
and triggering a starburst, while leaving the stellar disk largely intact. The
MW and M31 thus provide complementary opportunities for in-depth studies of the
disks, halos, and satellites of L* galaxies.
  Our understanding of the M31 system will be transformed in the 2020s if they
include wide field facilities for both photometry (HST-like sensitivity and
resolution) and spectroscopy (10-m class telescope, >1 sq. deg. field, highly
multiplexed, R~ 3000 to 6000). We focus here on the power of these facilities
to constrain the past, present, and future merger history of M31, via
chemo-dynamical analyses and star formation histories of phase-mixed stars
accreted at early times, as well as stars in surviving tidal debris features,
M31's extended disk, and intact satellite galaxies that will eventually be
tidally incorporated into the halo. This will yield an unprecedented view of
the hierarchical formation of the M31 system and the subhalos that built it
into the L* galaxy we observe today.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1904.09313v1
Astro2020 Science White Paper: Using X-Ray Polarimetry to Probe the
  Physics of Black Holes and Neutron Stars
This white paper highlights compact object and fundamental physics science
opportunities afforded by high-throughput broadband (0.1-60 keV) X-ray
polarization observations. X-ray polarimetry gives new observables with
geometric information about stellar remnants which are many orders of magnitude
too small for direct imaging. The X-ray polarimetric data also reveal details
about the emission mechanisms and the structure of the magnetic fields in and
around the most extreme objects in the Universe. Whereas the Imaging X-ray
Polarimetry Explorer (IXPE) to be launched in 2021 will obtain first results
for bright objects, a follow-up mission could be one order of magnitude more
sensitive and would be able to use a broader bandpass to perform physics type
experiments for representative samples of sources.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1907.04756v1
The Atacama Large Aperture Submillimeter Telescope (AtLAST)
The sub-mm sky is a unique window for probing the architecture of the
Universe and structures within it. From the discovery of dusty sub-mm galaxies,
to the ringed nature of protostellar disks, our understanding of the formation,
destruction, and evolution of objects in the Universe requires a comprehensive
view of the sub-mm sky. The current generation single-dish sub-mm facilities
have shown of the potential for discovery, while interferometers have presented
a high resolution view into the finer details. However, our understanding of
large-scale structure and our full use of these interferometers is now hampered
by the limited sensitivity of our sub-mm view of the universe at larger scales.
Thus, now is the time to start planning the next generation of sub-mm single
dish facilities, to build on these revolutions in our understanding of the
sub-mm sky. Here we present the case for the Atacama Large Aperture
Submillimeter Telescope (AtLAST), a concept for a 50m class single dish
telescope. We envision AtLAST as a facility operating as an international
partnership with a suite of instruments to deliver the transformative science
described in many Astro2020 science white papers. A 50m telescope with a high
throughput and 1$^\circ$ FoV with a full complement of advanced
instrumentation, including highly multiplexed high-resolution spectrometers,
continuum cameras and Integral Field Units, AtLAST will have mapping speeds
thousands of times greater than any current or planned facility. It will reach
confusion limits below $L_*$ in the distant universe and resolve low-mass
protostellar cores at the distance of the Galactic Center, providing synergies
with upcoming facilities across the spectrum. Located on the Atacama plateau,
to observe frequencies un-obtainable by other observatories, AtLAST will enable
a fundamentally new understanding of the sub-mm universe at unprecedented
depths.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1907.05422v1
In Pursuit of Galactic Archaeology: Astro2020 Science White Paper
The next decade affords tremendous opportunity to achieve the goals of
Galactic archaeology. That is, to reconstruct the evolutionary narrative of the
Milky Way, based on the empirical data that describes its current
morphological, dynamical, temporal and chemical structures. Here, we describe a
path to achieving this goal. The critical observational objective is a
Galaxy-scale, contiguous, comprehensive mapping of the disk's phase space,
tracing where the majority of the stellar mass resides. An ensemble of recent,
ongoing, and imminent surveys are working to deliver such a transformative
stellar map. Once this empirical description of the dust-obscured disk is
assembled, we will no longer be operationally limited by the observational
data. The primary and significant challenge within stellar astronomy and
Galactic archaeology will then be in fully utilizing these data. We outline the
next-decade framework for obtaining and then realizing the potential of the
data to chart the Galactic disk via its stars. One way to support the
investment in the massive data assemblage will be to establish a Galactic
Archaeology Consortium across the ensemble of stellar missions. This would
reflect a long-term commitment to build and support a network of personnel in a
dedicated effort to aggregate, engineer, and transform stellar measurements
into a comprehensive perspective of our Galaxy.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1907.06052v1
Astro2020 Activities and Projects White Paper: Arecibo Observatory in
  the Next Decade
The white paper discusses Arecibo Observatory's plan for facility
improvements and activities over the next decade. The facility improvements
include: (a) improving the telescope surface, pointing and focusing to achieve
superb performance up to ~12.5 GHz; (b) equip the telescope with ultrawide-band
feeds; (c) upgrade the instrumentation with a 4 GHz bandwidth high dynamic
range digital link and a universal backend and (d) augment the VLBI facility by
integrating the 12m telescope for phase referencing. These upgrades to the
Arecibo telescope are critical to keep the national facility in the forefront
of research in radio astronomy while maintaining its dominance in radar studies
of near-Earth asteroids, planets and satellites. In the next decade, the
Arecibo telescope will play a synergistic role with the upcoming facilities
such as ngVLA, SKA and the now commissioned FAST telescope. Further, the
observatory will be actively engaged in mentoring and training programs for
students from a diverse background.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1907.10688v1
The Dark Energy Spectroscopic Instrument (DESI)
We present the status of the Dark Energy Spectroscopic Instrument (DESI) and
its plans and opportunities for the coming decade. DESI construction and its
initial five years of operations are an approved experiment of the US
Department of Energy and is summarized here as context for the Astro2020 panel.
Beyond 2025, DESI will require new funding to continue operations. We expect
that DESI will remain one of the world's best facilities for wide-field
spectroscopy throughout the decade. More about the DESI instrument and survey
can be found at https://www.desi.lbl.gov.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1902.10263v1
Relativistic Jets in the Accretion & Collimation Zone: New Challenges
  Enabled by New Instruments
Jets are a ubiquitous part of the accretion process, seen in a wide variety
of objects ranging from active galaxies (AGN) to X-ray binary stars and even
newly formed stars. AGN jets are accelerated by the supermassive black hole of
their host galaxy by a coupling between the magnetic field and inflowing
material. They are the source for many exciting phenomena and can profoundly
influence the larger galaxy and surrounding cluster.
  This White Paper points out what advances can be achieved in the field by new
technologies, concentrating on the zone where jets are accelerated to
relativistic speeds and collimated. The ngVLA and new space VLBI missions will
give higher angular resolution, sensitivity and fidelity in the radio,
penetrating this zone for additional objects and allowing us to resolve
fundamental questions over the physics of jet acceleration and collimation.
Interferometry in other bands would allow us to probe directly flaring
components. We also emphasize the need for polarimetry, which is essential to
revealing the role and configuration of magnetic fields.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.02574v1
X-rays Studies of the Solar System
X-ray observatories contribute fundamental advances in Solar System studies
by probing Sun-object interactions, developing planet and satellite surface
composition maps, probing global magnetospheric dynamics, and tracking
astrochemical reactions. Despite these crucial results, the technological
limitations of current X-ray instruments hinder the overall scope and impact
for broader scientific application of X-ray observations both now and in the
coming decade. Implementation of modern advances in X-ray optics will provide
improvements in effective area, spatial resolution, and spectral resolution for
future instruments. These improvements will usher in a truly transformative era
of Solar System science through the study of X-ray emission.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.03582v1
A Summary of Multimessenger Science with Neutron Star Mergers
Neutron star mergers, referring to both binary neutron star and neutron star
black hole mergers, are the canonical multimessenger events. They have been
detected across the electromagnetic spectrum, have recently been detected in
gravitational waves, and are likely to produce neutrinos over several decades
in energy. The non-thermal prompt and afterglow emission of short gamma-ray
bursts and the quasi-thermal emission from the radioactively powered kilonovae
provide distinct insights into the physics of neutron star mergers. When
combined with direct information on coalescence from gravitational waves and
neutrinos these sources may become the best understood astrophysical
transients. Multimessenger observations of these cataclysmic events will
determine sources of gravitational waves and astrophysical neutrinos, enable
precision cosmology, and unique tests of fundamental physics, the origin of
heavy elements, the behavior of relativistic jets, and the equation of state of
supranuclear matter. In this white paper we present a summary of the science
discoveries possible with multimessenger observations of neutron star mergers
and provide recommendations to enable them in the new era of time-domain,
multimessenger astronomy.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.03657v1
Kiloparsec-scale Jets: Physics, Emission Mechanisms, and Challenges
Jets are a ubiquitous part of the accretion process, created in AGN, by a
coupling between the magnetic field near the central black hole and inflowing
material. We point out what advances can be achieved by new technologies,
concentrating on kiloparsec scales, beyond the Bondi radius, where accretion
stops. Here, jets profoundly influence their host galaxy and the surrounding
clusters and groups, transporting prodigious amounts of matter and energies to
scales of hundreds of kpc. Basic questions still remain regarding jet physics,
which new instruments can advance greatly. The ngVLA, LOFAR, JWST and LUVOIR,
as well as a Chandra successor, will give higher angular resolution and
sensitivity. This will allow us to probe the emission mechanisms and dynamics
of jets, and search for links between these areas, magnetic fields, particle
acceleration and high-energy emission mechanisms. We stress the need for
polarimetry in the X-ray and optical, critical to many of the most important
questions in jet physics. We hope to directly probe resolved, flaring
components, which for the first time will allow us to reveal how jets respond
to stimuli and link statics and dynamics.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04496v1
Astrophysics and Cosmology with Line-Intensity Mapping
Line-Intensity Mapping is an emerging technique which promises new insights
into the evolution of the Universe, from star formation at low redshifts to the
epoch of reionization and cosmic dawn. It measures the integrated emission of
atomic and molecular spectral lines from galaxies and the intergalactic medium
over a broad range of frequencies, using instruments with aperture requirements
that are greatly relaxed relative to surveys for single objects. A coordinated,
comprehensive, multi-line intensity-mapping experimental effort can efficiently
probe over 80% of the volume of the observable Universe - a feat beyond the
reach of other methods. Line-intensity mapping will uniquely address a wide
array of pressing mysteries in galaxy evolution, cosmology, and fundamental
physics. Among them are the cosmic history of star formation and galaxy
evolution, the compositions of the interstellar and intergalactic media, the
physical processes that take place during the epoch of reionization,
cosmological inflation, the validity of Einstein's gravity theory on the
largest scales, the nature of dark energy and the origin of dark matter.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04504v1
Multi-Physics of AGN Jets in the Multi-Messenger Era
Active galactic nuclei (AGN) with relativistic jets, powered by gas accretion
onto their central supermassive black hole (SMBH), are unique laboratories for
studying the physics of matter and elementary particles in extreme conditions
that cannot be realized on Earth. For a long time since the discovery of AGN,
photons were the only way to probe the underlying physical processes. The
recent discovery of a very high energy neutrino, IceCube-170922A, coincident
with a flaring blazar, TXS 0506+056, provides the first evidence that AGN jets
are multi-messenger sources; they are capable of accelerating hadrons to very
high energies, while producing non-thermal EM radiation and high-energy
neutrinos. This new era of multi-messenger astronomy, which will mature in the
next decade, offers us the unprecedented opportunity to combine more than one
messenger to solve some long-standing puzzles of AGN jet physics: How do jets
dissipate their energy to accelerate particles? What is the jet total kinetic
power? Where and how do jets produce high-energy emission and neutrinos? What
physical mechanisms drive the particle acceleration?

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04531v1
The hidden circumgalactic medium
The cycling of baryons in and out of galaxies is what ultimately drives
galaxy formation and evolution. The circumgalactic medium (CGM) represents the
interface between the interstellar medium and the cosmic web, hence its
properties are directly shaped by the baryon cycle. Although traditionally the
CGM is thought to consist of warm and hot gas, recent breakthroughs are
presenting a new scenario according to which an important fraction of its mass
may reside in the cold atomic and molecular phase. This would represent fuel
that is readily available for star formation, with crucial implications for
feeding and feedback processes in galaxies. However, such cold CGM, especially
in local galaxies where its projected size on sky is expected to be of several
arcminutes, cannot be imaged by ALMA due to interferometric spatial scale
filtering of large-scale structures. We show that the only way to probe the
multiphase CGM including its coldest component is through a large (e.g. 50-m)
single dish (sub-)mm telescope.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04634v1
Energetic Particles of Cosmic Accelerators I: Galactic Accelerators
The high-energy universe has revealed that energetic particles are ubiquitous
in the cosmos and play a vital role in the cultivation of cosmic environments
on all scales. Energetic particles in our own galaxy, galactic cosmic rays
(GCRs), engage in a complex interplay with the interstellar medium and magnetic
fields in the galaxy, giving rise to many of its key characteristics. This
White Paper is the first of a two-part series highlighting the most well-known
high-energy cosmic accelerators and contributions that MeV gamma-ray astronomy
will bring to understanding their energetic particle phenomena. The focus of
this white paper is galactic cosmic rays, supernova remnants, protostellar jets
and superbubbles, and colliding wind binaries.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04635v1
The warm and dense Galaxy - tracing the formation of dense cloud
  structures out to the Galactic Center
The past two decades have seen extensive surveys of the far-infrared to
submillimeter continuum emission in the plane of our Galaxy. We line out
prospects for the coming decade for corresponding molecular and atomic line
surveys which are needed to fully understand the formation of the dense
structures that give birth to clusters and stars out of the diffuse
interstellar medium. We propose to work towards Galaxy wide surveys in mid-J CO
lines to trace shocks from colliding clouds, Galaxy-wide surveys for atomic
Carbon lines in order to get a detailed understanding of the relation of atomic
and molecular gas in clouds, and to perform extensive surveys of the structure
of the dense parts of molecular clouds to understand the importance of
filaments/fibers over the full range of Galactic environments and to study how
dense cloud cores are formed from the filaments. This work will require a large
(50m) Single Dish submillimeter telescope equipped with massively multipixel
spectrometer arrays, such as envisaged by the AtLAST project.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04639v1
Energetic Particles of Cosmic Accelerators II: Active Galactic Nuclei
  and Gamma-ray Bursts
The high-energy universe has revealed that energetic particles are ubiquitous
in the cosmos and play a vital role in the cultivation of cosmic environments
on all scales. Though they play a key role in cultivating the cosmological
environment and/or enabling our studies of it, there is still much we do not
know about AGNs and GRBs, particularly the avenue in which and through which
they supply radiation and energetic particles, namely their jets. This White
Paper is the second of a two-part series highlighting the most well-known
high-energy cosmic accelerators and contributions that MeV gamma-ray astronomy
will bring to understanding their energetic particle phenomena. The focus of
this white paper is active galactic nuclei and gamma-ray bursts.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04691v1
Radio Time-Domain Signatures of Magnetar Birth
The last decade has seen the rapid, concurrent development of new classes of
energetic astrophysical transients, including Fast Radio Bursts, Superluminous
Supernovae, and ultralong gamma-ray bursts. We consider the implications of an
emerging consensus on the origin of these diverse phenomena as different
signatures of magnetar birth. We describe how magnetar-powered radio transients
from milliseconds to gigaseconds will be used to address diverse physical
questions related to the stellar evolution and death, the circum- and
intergalactic medium, and fundamental physics on scales ranging from the
quantum to cosmological. We argue that high-sensitivity radio interferometer
concepts in development will be critical to accessing this science. There is
also a growing need for scientists with expertise in new statistical tools and
software techniques.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04730v1
Gravitational wave cosmology and astrophysics with large spectroscopic
  galaxy surveys
During the next decade, gravitational waves will be observed from hundreds of
binary inspiral events. When the redshifts of the host galaxies are known,
these events can be used as `standard sirens', sensitive to the expansion rate
of the Universe. Measurements of the Hubble constant $H_0$ from standard sirens
can be done independently of other cosmological probes, and events occurring at
$z<0.1$ will allow us to infer $H_0$ independently of cosmological models. The
next generation of spectroscopic galaxy surveys will play a crucial role in
reducing systematic uncertainties in $H_0$ from standard sirens, particularly
for the numerous `dark sirens' which do not have an electromagnetic
counterpart. In combination with large spectroscopic data sets, standard sirens
with an EM counterpart are expected to constrain $H_0$ to $\sim 1-2\%$
precision within the next decade. This is competitive with the best estimates
of $H_0$ obtained to date and will help illuminate the current tension between
existing measurements. Information on the galaxies that host the gravitational
wave events will also shed light on the origin and evolution of compact object
binaries.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04743v1
Dynamical Masses for a Complete Census of Local Dwarf Galaxies
The 2020s are poised to continue the past two decades of significant advances
based on observations of dwarf galaxies in the nearby universe. Upcoming
wide-field photometric surveys will probe substantially deeper than previous
data sets, pushing the discovery frontier for new dwarf galaxies to fainter
magnitudes, lower surface brightnesses, and larger distances. These dwarfs will
be compelling targets for testing models of galaxy formation and cosmology,
including the properties of dark matter and possible modifications to gravity.
However, most of the science that can be extracted from nearby dwarf galaxies
relies on spectroscopy with large telescopes. We suggest that maximizing the
scientific impact of near-future imaging surveys will require both major
spectroscopic surveys on 6-10m telescopes and multiplexed spectroscopy with
even larger apertures.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04831v1
The Magellanic Stream as a Probe of Astrophysics
Extending for over 200 degrees across the sky, the Magellanic Stream together
with its Leading Arm is the most spectacular example of a gaseous stream in the
local Universe. The Stream is an interwoven tail of filaments trailing the
Magellanic Clouds as they orbit the Milky Way. Thought to be created by tidal
forces, ram pressure, and halo interactions, the Stream is a benchmark for
dynamical models of the Magellanic System, a case study for gas accretion and
dwarf-galaxy accretion onto galaxies, a probe of the outer halo, and the bearer
of more gas mass than all other Galactic high velocity clouds combined. If it
survives to reach the Galactic disk, it may maintain or even elevate the
Galactic star-formation rate. In this white paper, we emphasize the Stream's
importance for many areas of Galactic astronomy, summarize key unanswered
questions, and identify future observations and simulations needed to resolve
them. We stress the importance of ultraviolet, optical, and radio spectroscopy,
and the need for computational models that capture full particle and radiation
treatments within an MHD environment.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04833v1
Spectroscopic Observations of the Fermi Bubbles
Two giant plasma lobes, known as the Fermi Bubbles, extend 10 kpc above and
below the Galactic Center. Since their discovery in X-rays in 2003 (and in
gamma-rays in 2010), the Bubbles have been recognized as a new morphological
feature of our Galaxy and a striking example of energetic feedback from the
nuclear region. They remain the subject of intense research and their origin
via AGN activity or nuclear star formation is still debated. While imaging at
gamma-ray, X-ray, microwave, and radio wavelengths has revealed their
morphology and energetics, spectroscopy at radio and UV wavelengths has
recently been used to study the kinematics and chemical abundances of
outflowing gas clouds embedded in the Bubbles (the nuclear wind). Here we
identify the scientific themes that have emerged from the spectroscopic
studies, determine key open questions, and describe further observations needed
in the next ten years to characterize the basic physical conditions in the
nuclear wind and its impact on the rest of the Galaxy. Nuclear winds are
ubiquitous in galaxies, and the Galactic Center represents the best opportunity
to study the constitution and structure of a nuclear wind in close detail.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04839v1
Historical astronomical data: urgent need for preservation, digitization
  enabling scientific exploration
Over the past decades and even centuries, the astronomical community has
accumulated a signif-icant heritage of recorded observations of a great many
astronomical objects. Those records con-tain irreplaceable information about
long-term evolutionary and non-evolutionary changes in our Universe, and their
preservation and digitization is vital. Unfortunately, most of those data risk
becoming degraded and thence totally lost. We hereby call upon the astronomical
community and US funding agencies to recognize the gravity of the situation,
and to commit to an interna-tional preservation and digitization efforts
through comprehensive long-term planning supported by adequate resources,
prioritizing where the expected scientific gains, vulnerability of the
origi-nals and availability of relevant infrastructure so dictates. The
importance and urgency of this issue has been recognized recently by General
Assembly XXX of the International Astronomical Union (IAU) in its Resolution
B3: "on preservation, digitization and scientific exploration of his-torical
astronomical data". We outline the rationale of this promotion, provide
examples of new science through successful recovery efforts, and review the
potential losses to science if nothing it done.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04902v1
Intermediate-Mass Black Holes in Extragalactic Globular Clusters
Intermediate-mass black holes (IMBHs) have masses of about 100 to 100,000
solar masses. They remain elusive. Observing IMBHs in present-day globular
clusters (GCs) would validate a formation channel for seed black holes in the
early universe and inform event predictions for gravitational wave facilities.
Reaching a large number of GCs per galaxy is key, as models predict that only a
few percent will have retained their gravitational-wave fostering IMBHs.
Related, many galaxies will need to be examined to establish a robust sample of
IMBHs in GCs. These needs can be meet by using a next-generation Very Large
Array (ngVLA) to search for IMBHs in the GCs of hundreds of galaxies out to a
distance of 25 Mpc. These galaxies hold tens of thousands of GCs in total. We
describe how to convert an ngVLA signal from a GC to an IMBH mass according to
a semi-empirical accretion model. Simulations of gas flows in GCs would help to
improve the robustness of the conversion. Also, self-consistent dynamical
models of GCs, with stellar and binary evolution in the presence of IMBHs,
would help to improve IMBH retention predictions for present-day GCs.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04980v1
Tracing the formation history of galaxy clusters into the epoch of
  reionization
The large-scale overdensities of galaxies at z~2-7 known as protoclusters are
believed to be the sites of cluster formation, and deep, wide survey projects
such as the Large Synoptic Survey Telescope (LSST) and the Wide Field Infrared
Survey Telescope (WFIRST) will deliver significant numbers of these interesting
structures. Spectroscopic confirmation and interpretation of these targets,
however, is still challenging, and will require wide-field multi-plexed
spectroscopy on >20 m-class telescopes in the optical and near-infrared. In the
coming decade, detailed studies of protoclusters will enable us, for the first
time, to systematically connect these cluster progenitors in the early universe
to their virialized counterparts at lower redshifts. This will allow us to
address observationally the formation of brightest cluster galaxies and other
cluster galaxy populations, the buildup of the intra-cluster light, the
chemical enrichment history of the intra-cluster medium, and the formation and
triggering of supermassive black holes in dense environments, all of which are
currently almost exclusively approached either through the fossil record in
clusters or through numerical simulations. Furthermore, at the highest
redshifts (z~5-10), these large extended overdensities of star-forming galaxies
are believed to have played an important role in the reionization of the
universe, which needs to be tested by upcoming experiments. Theory and recent
simulations also suggest important links between these overdensities and the
formation of supermassive black holes, but observational evidence is still
lacking. In this white paper we review our current understanding of this
important phase of galaxy cluster history that will be explored by the next
generation of large aperture ground-based telescopes GMT and TMT.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05085v1
Astro2020 Science White Paper: Science at the edges: internal kinematics
  of globular clusters' external fields
The outer regions of globular clusters can enable us to answer many
fundamental questions concerning issues ranging from the formation and
evolution of clusters and their multiple stellar populations to the study of
stars near and beyond the hydrogen-burning limit and to the dynamics of the
Milky Way. The outskirts of globular clusters are still uncharted territories
observationally. A very efficient way to explore them is through high-precision
proper motions of low-mass stars over a large field of view. The Wide Field
InfraRed Survey Telescope (WFIRST) combines all these characteristics in a
single telescope, making it the best observational tool to uncover the wealth
of information contained in the clusters' outermost regions.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05150v1
High-Dimensional Dust Mapping
Galactic interstellar dust has a profound impact not only on our observations
of objects throughout the Universe, but also on the morphology, star formation,
and chemical evolution of the Galaxy. The advent of massive imaging and
spectroscopic surveys (particularly in the infrared) places us on the threshold
of being able to map the properties and dynamics of dust and the interstellar
medium (ISM) in three dimensions throughout the Milky Way disk and bulge. These
developments will enable a fundamentally new understanding of dust properties,
including how grains respond to their local environment and how those
environments affect dust attenuation of background objects of interest.
Distance-resolved maps of dust motion also hold great promise for tracing the
flow of interstellar material throughout the Galaxy on a variety of scales,
from bar-streaming motions to the collapse and dissolution of individual
molecular clouds. These advances require optical and infrared imaging of stars
throughout the Galactic midplane, stretching many kiloparsecs from the Sun,
matched with very dense spectroscopic coverage to probe the ISM's fine-grained
structure.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05241v1
Probing the Physical Properties of the Corona in Accreting Black Holes
The corona is a key component of most luminous accreting black holes,
carrying 5 - 30 % of the power and in non-jetted Active Galactic Nuclei (AGN),
creating all the X-ray emission above $\simeq 1-2$ keV. Its emission
illuminates the inner accretion disc, creating the atomic line-rich reflection
spectrum used to diagnose and map the accretion flow and measure black hole
spin. The corona is likely powered magnetically by the strong differential
rotation of the accretion disc and it may be intimately related to relativistic
jets. Recent work shows that many black hole coronae may be dominated by
electron-positron pairs produced by photon-photon collisions in the compact
coronal environment. Despite the corona being an integral component of AGN and
black hole binary systems, much is still unknown about the nature of the
corona, such as its geometry, location, and the physical mechanisms powering
the emission. In this white paper we explore our current understanding of
coronal properties, such as its temperature, obtained from measurements with
existing hard X-ray telescopes such as NuSTAR, and discuss important questions
to be addressed in the coming decade surrounding the nature of the corona. Hard
X-ray observations will continue to dispel the mystery of coronae and open up
this part of the quasar engine to full understanding.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05478v1
Polarization in Disks
Polarized dust emission outside of disks reveal the magnetic field morphology
of molecular clouds. Within disks, however, polarized dust emission can arise
from very different mechanisms (e.g., self-scattering), and each of them are
useful for constraining physical properties in the disk. For example, these
mechanisms allow us to constrain the disk grain size distributions and
grain/disk geometries, independent from current methods of measuring these
parameters. To accurately model these features and disentangle the various
polarization mechanisms, multiwavelength observations at very high resolution
and sensitivity are required. With significant upgrades to current
interferometric facilities, we can understand how grains evolve in disks during
the planet formation process.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05606v1
The Future Landscape of High-Redshift Galaxy Cluster Science
Modern galaxy cluster science is a multi-wavelength endeavor with
cornerstones provided by X-ray, optical/IR, mm, and radio measurements. In
combination, these observations enable the construction of large, clean,
complete cluster catalogs, and provide precise redshifts and robust mass
calibration. The complementary nature of these multi-wavelength data
dramatically reduces the impact of systematic effects that limit the utility of
measurements made in any single waveband. The future of multi-wavelength
cluster science is compelling, with cluster catalogs set to expand by orders of
magnitude in size, and extend, for the first time, into the high-redshift
regime where massive, virialized structures first formed. Unlocking
astrophysical and cosmological insight from the coming catalogs will require
new observing facilities that combine high spatial and spectral resolution with
large collecting areas, as well as concurrent advances in simulation modeling
campaigns. Together, future multi-wavelength observations will resolve the
thermodynamic structure in and around the first groups and clusters,
distinguishing the signals from active and star-forming galaxies, and unveiling
the interrelated stories of galaxy evolution and structure formation during the
epoch of peak cosmic activity.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05641v1
Galaxy Winds in the Age of Hyperdimensional Astrophysics
The past decade began with the first light of ALMA and will end at the start
of the new era of hyperdimensional astrophysics. Our community-wide movement
toward highly multiwavelength and multidimensional datasets has enabled immense
progress in each science frontier identified by the 2010 Decadal Survey,
particularly with regard to black hole feedback and the cycle of baryons in
galaxies. Facilities like ALMA and the next generation of integral field unit
(IFU) spectrographs together enable mapping the physical conditions and
kinematics of warm ionized and cold molecular gas in galaxies in unprecedented
detail (Fig. 1). JWST's launch at the start of the coming decade will push this
capability to the rest-frame UV at redshifts z > 6, mapping the birth of stars
in the first galaxies at cosmic dawn. Understanding of their subsequent
evolution, however, now awaits an ability to map the processes that transform
galaxies directly, rather than the consequences of those processes in
isolation. In this paper, we argue that doing so requires an equivalent
revolution in spatially resolved spectroscopy for the hot plasma that pervades
galaxies, the atmospheres in which they reside, and the winds that are the
engines of their evolution.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05648v1
Magnetars as Astrophysical Laboratories of Extreme Quantum
  Electrodynamics: The Case for a Compton Telescope
A next generation of Compton and pair telescopes that improve MeV-band
detection sensitivity by more than a decade beyond current instrumental
capabilities will open up new insights into a variety of astrophysical source
classes. Among these are magnetars, the most highly magnetic of the neutron
star zoo, which will serve as a prime science target for a new mission
surveying the MeV window. This paper outlines the core questions pertaining to
magnetars that can be addressed by such a technology. These range from global
magnetar geometry and population trends, to incisive probes of hard X-ray
emission locales, to providing cosmic laboratories for spectral and
polarimetric testing of exotic predictions of QED, principally the prediction
of the splitting of photons and magnetic pair creation. Such fundamental
physics cannot yet be discerned in terrestrial experiments. State of the art
modeling of the persistent hard X-ray tail emission in magnetars is presented
to outline the case for powerful diagnostics using Compton polarimeters. The
case highlights an inter-disciplinary opportunity to seed discovery at the
interface between astronomy and physics.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05660v1
Cosmic Rays and Interstellar Medium with Gamma-Ray Observations at MeV
  Energies
Latest precise cosmic-ray (CR) measurements and present gamma-ray
observations have started challenging our understanding of CR transport and
interaction in the Galaxy. Moreover, because the density of CRs is similar to
the density of the magnetic field, gas, and starlight in the interstellar
medium (ISM), CRs are expected to affect the ISM dynamics, including the
physical and chemical processes that determine transport and star formation. In
this context, observations of gamma-ray emission at MeV energies produced by
the low-energy CRs are very important and urgent. A telescope covering the
energy range between ~0.1 MeV and a few GeV with a sensitivity more than an
order of magnitude better than previous instruments would allow for the first
time to study in detail the low-energy CRs, providing information on their
sources, their spectra throughout the Galaxy, their abundances, transport
properties, and their role on the evolution of the Galaxy and star formation.
Here we discuss the scientific prospects for studies of CRs, ISM (gas,
interstellar photons, and magnetic fields) and associated gamma-ray emissions
with such an instrument.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05699v1
Prospects for the detection of synchrotron halos around middle-age
  pulsars
The origin of cosmic-ray positrons detected with an energy above 10 GeV is
one of the most intriguing mysteries in Astroparticle Physics. Different
interpretations have been invoked to solve this puzzle such as pulsar wind
nebulae (PWNe), supernovae remnants or interactions of dark matter particles.
The HAWC and Milagro experiments have measured an extended emission of photons
above 10 TeV in the direction of Geminga and Monogem PWNe which can be
interpreted by photons emitted through inverse Compton scattering by positrons
and electrons accelerated by these sources. These HAWC and Milagro detections
are extremely important to estimate the PWN contribution to the positron
excess. Positrons and electrons emitted by PWNe and injected in the
interstellar medium can produce photons with an energy between radio and X-ray
through synchrotron radiation with the Galactic magnetic field. In this white
paper we show that Astrophysics Probe mission concepts, such as AMEGO (the
All-sky Medium Energy Gamma-ray Observatory) and AdEPT (The Advanced Energetic
Pair Telescope), are suitable to detect the synchrotron halos from Monogem and
Geminga PWNe and we will report the list of the most promising PWNe that AMEGO
could be able to detect.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05745v1
The Nature of Low-Density Star Formation
How do stars manage to form within low-density, HI-dominated gas? Such
environments provide a laboratory for studying star formation with physical
conditions distinct from starbursts and the metal-rich disks of spiral galaxies
where most effort has been invested. Here we outline fundamental open questions
about the nature of star formation at low-density. We describe the wide-field,
high-resolution UV-optical-IR-radio observations of stars, star clusters and
gas clouds in nearby galaxies needed in the 2020's to provide definitive
answers, essential for development of a complete theory of star formation.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05765v1
Neutrinos, Cosmic Rays and the MeV Band
The possible association of the blazar TXS 0506+056 with a high-energy
neutrino detected by IceCube holds the tantalizing potential to answer three
astrophysical questions: 1. Where do high-energy neutrinos originate? 2. Where
are cosmic rays produced and accelerated? 3. What radiation mechanisms produce
the high-energy {\gamma}-rays in blazars? The MeV gamma-ray band holds the key
to these questions, because it is an excellent proxy for photo-hadronic
processes in blazar jets, which also produce neutrino counterparts. Variability
in MeV gamma-rays sheds light on the physical conditions and mechanisms that
take place in the particle acceleration sites in blazar jets. In addition,
hadronic blazar models also predict a high level of polarization fraction in
the MeV band, which can unambiguously distinguish the radiation mechanism.
Future MeV missions with a large field of view, high sensitivity, and
polarization capabilities will play a central role in multi-messenger
astronomy, since pointed, high-resolution telescopes will follow neutrino
alerts only when triggered by an all-sky instrument.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05845v1
Looking Under a Better Lamppost: MeV-scale Dark Matter Candidates
The era of precision cosmology has revealed that about 85% of the matter in
the universe is dark matter. Two well-motivated candidates are weakly
interacting massive particles (WIMPs) and weakly interacting sub-eV particles
(WISPs) (e.g. axions). Both WIMPs and WISPs possess distinct {\gamma}-ray
signatures. Over the last decade, data taken between 50 MeV to >300 GeV by the
Fermi Large Area Telescope (Fermi-LAT) have provided stringent constraints on
both classes of dark matter models. Thus far, there are no conclusive
detections. However, there is an intriguing {\gamma}-ray excess associated with
the Galactic center that could be explained by WIMP annihilation. At lower
energies, the poor angular resolution of the Fermi-LAT makes source
identification challenging, inhibiting our ability to more sensitively probe
both the Galactic center excess, as well as lower-mass WIMP and WISP models.
Additionally, targeted WISP searches (e.g., those probing supernovae and
blazars) would greatly benefit from enhanced energy resolution and polarization
measurements in the MeV range. To address these issues, a new telescope that is
optimized for MeV observations is needed. Such an instrument would allow us to
explore new areas of dark matter parameter space and provide unprecedented
access to its particle nature.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05983v2
Astro2020: The Cycling of Matter from the Interstellar Medium to Stars
  and back
Understanding the matter cycle in the interstellar medium of galaxies from
the assembly of clouds to star formation and stellar feedback remains an
important and exciting field in comtemporary astrophysics. Many open questions
regarding cloud and structure formation, the role of turbulence, and the
relative importance of the various feedback processes can only be addressed
with observations of spectrally resolved lines. We here stress the importance
of two specific sets of lines: the finestructure lines of atomic carbon as a
tracer of the dark molecular gas and mid-J CO lines as tracers of the warm,
active molecular gas in regions of turbulence dissipation and feedback. The
observations must cover a wide range of environments (i.e., physical
conditions), which will be achieved by large scale surveys of Galactic
molecular clouds, the Galactic Center, the Magellanic clouds, and nearby
galaxies. To date, such surveys are completely missing and thus constitute an
important science opportunity for the next decade and beyond. For the
successful interpretation of the observations, it will be essential to combine
them with results from (chemical) modelling and simulations of the interstellar
medium.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.06106v1
Supermassive black holes at high redshifts
MeV blazars are the most luminous persistent sources in the Universe and emit
most of their energy in the MeV band. These objects display very large jet
powers and accretion luminosities and are known to host black holes with a mass
often exceeding $10^9 M_{\odot}$. An MeV survey, performed by a new generation
MeV telescope which will bridge the entire energy and sensitivity gap between
the current generation of hard X-ray and gamma-ray instruments, will detect
$>$1000 MeV blazars up to a redshift of $z=5-6$. Here we show that this would
allow us: 1) to probe the formation and growth mechanisms of supermassive black
holes at high redshifts, 2) to pinpoint the location of the emission region in
powerful blazars, 3) to determine how accretion and black hole spin interplay
to power the jet.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.06250v1
Far to near UV spectroscopy of the interstellar medium at very high
  resolution and very high signal-to-noise ratio
A comprehensive study of interstellar medium phases and the nature of their
boundaries or connections requires comparing abundances and velocity profiles
from tracers of the different phases. In the UV, studies of a wealth of
absorption features appearing in the spectra of hot stars yield fundamental
insights into the composition and physical characteristics of all phases of the
ISM along with the processes that influence them. They also inform us on the
nature of boundaries between them. However no single instrument has as yet
given access to species in all ISM phases at the same high spectral resolution:
from the molecular bands of CO and H2 in the far-UV, to the cold neutral medium
tracers C I and S I and the warm medium tracers like C II, NI, OI, Mg II, Fe
II, Si II etc, and to the high ions of the hot ionized medium C IV, Si IV in
the UV, as well as O VI in the far UV. We have yet to design the spectrometer
that will enable observing the full UV domain at resolving power R>200 000 and
signal-to-noise ratio SNR>500. The line FWHM being governed by turbulence,
temperature, and species mass, such a resolution is necessary to resolve lines
from both the cold molecular hydrogen and the warm metal ions with a turbulence
of ~1 km/s, and to differentiate distinct velocity components, typically
separated by less than 2 km/s.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.06321v1
Solar system Deep Time-Surveys of atmospheres, surfaces, and rings
Imaging and resolved spectroscopy reveal varying environmental conditions in
our dynamic solar system. Many key advances have focused on how these
conditions change over time. Observatory-level commitments to conduct annual
observations of solar system bodies would establish a long-term legacy
chronicling the evolution of dynamic planetary atmospheres, surfaces, and
rings. Science investigations will use these temporal datasets to address
potential biosignatures, circulation and evolution of atmospheres from the edge
of the habitable zone to the ice giants, orbital dynamics and planetary
seismology with ring systems, exchange between components in the planetary
system, and the migration and processing of volatiles on icy bodies, including
Ocean Worlds. The common factor among these diverse investigations is the need
for a very long campaign duration, and temporal sampling at an annual cadence.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.06349v2
The Sun at GeV--TeV Energies: A New Laboratory for Astroparticle Physics
The Sun is an excellent laboratory for astroparticle physics but remains
poorly understood at GeV--TeV energies. Despite the immense relevance for both
cosmic-ray propagation and dark matter searches, only in recent years has the
Sun become a target for precision gamma-ray astronomy with the Fermi-LAT
instrument. Among the most surprising results from the observations is a hard
excess of GeV gamma-ray flux that strongly anti-correlates with solar activity,
especially at the highest energies accessible to Fermi-LAT. Most of the
observed properties of the gamma-ray emission cannot be explained by existing
models of cosmic-ray interactions with the solar atmosphere. GeV--TeV gamma-ray
observations of the Sun spanning an entire solar cycle would provide key
insights into the origin of these gamma rays, and consequently improve our
understanding of the Sun's environment as well as the foregrounds for new
physics searches, such as dark matter. These can be complemented with new
observations with neutrinos and cosmic rays. Together these observations make
the Sun a new testing ground for particle physics in dynamic environments.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.06356v1
Physics of cosmic plasmas from high angular resolution X-ray imaging of
  galaxy clusters
Galaxy clusters are massive dark matter-dominated systems filled with X-ray
emitting, optically thin plasma. Their large size and relative simplicity (at
least as astrophysical objects go) make them a unique laboratory to measure
some of the interesting plasma properties that are inaccessible by other means
but fundamentally important for understanding and modeling many astrophysical
phenomena -- from solar flares to black hole accretion to galaxy formation and
the emergence of the cosmological Large Scale Structure. While every cluster
astrophysicist is eagerly anticipating the direct gas velocity measurements
from the forthcoming microcalorimeters onboard XRISM, Athena and future
missions such as Lynx, a number of those plasma properties can best be probed
by high-resolution X-ray imaging of galaxy clusters. Chandra has obtained some
trailblazing results, but only grazed the surface of such studies. In this
white paper, we discuss why we need arcsecond-resolution, high collecting area,
low relative background X-ray imagers (with modest spectral resolution), such
as the proposed AXIS and the imaging detector of Lynx.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.06429v1
Probing 3D Density and Velocity Fields of ISM in Centers of Galaxies
  with Future X-Ray Observations
Observations of bright and variable "reflected" X-ray emission from molecular
clouds located within inner hundred parsec of our Galaxy have demonstrated that
the central supermassive black hole, Sgr A*, experienced short and powerful
flares in the past few hundred years. These flares offer a truly unique
opportunity to determine 3D location of the illuminated clouds (with ~10 pc
accuracy) and to reveal their internal structure (down to 0.1 pc scales). Short
duration of the flare(s), combined with X-rays high penetration power and
insensitivity of the reflection signal to thermo- and chemo-dynamical state of
the gas, ensures that the provided diagnostics of the density and velocity
fields is unbiased and almost free of the projection and opacity effects. Sharp
and sensitive snapshots of molecular gas accessible with aid of future X-ray
observatories featuring large collecting area and high angular (arcsec-level)
and spectral (eV-level) resolution cryogenic bolometers will present invaluable
information on properties of the supersonic turbulence inside the illuminated
clouds, map their shear velocity field and allow cross-matching between X-ray
data and velocity-resolved emission of various molecular species provided by
ALMA and other ground-based facilities. This will highlight large and
small-scale dynamics of the dense gas and help uncovering specifics of the ISM
lifecycle and high-mass star formation under very extreme conditions of
galactic centers. While the former is of particular importance for the SMBH
feeding and triggering AGN feedback, the latter might be an excellent test case
for star formation taking place in high-redshift galaxies.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.06760v1
Testing general relativity with accretion onto compact objects
The X-ray emission of neutron stars and black holes presents a rich
phenomenology that can lead us to a better understanding of their nature and to
address more general physics questions: Does general relativity apply in the
strong gravity regime? Is spacetime around black holes described by the Kerr
metric? This white paper considers how we can investigate these questions by
studying reverberation mapping and quasi-periodic oscillations in accreting
systems with a combination of high-spectral and high-timing resolution. In the
near future, we will be able to study compact objects in the X-rays in a new
way: advancements in transition-edge sensors (TES) technology will allow for
electron-volt-resolution spectroscopy combined with nanoseconds-precision
timing.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.06777v1
Exploring the physics of neutron stars with high-resolution,
  high-throughput X-ray spectroscopy
The advent of moderately high-resolution X-ray spectroscopy with Chandra and
XMM promised to usher in a new age in the study of neutron stars: we thought we
would study neutron stars like stars, with resolved absorption spectra
revealing their surface chemical composition and physical conditions (e.g.
surface gravity, pressure, temperature). Nature, however, did not cooperate in
this endeavor, as observations of neutron stars have not revealed verified
atomic absorption lines yet. In the near future, advancements in
transition-edge sensors (TES) technology will allow for
electron-volt-resolution spectroscopy combined with nanoseconds-precision
timing. Combining these detectors with collector optics will also us to study
neutron stars in much greater detail by achieving high-energy resolution with
much larger collecting areas to uncover even weak spectral features over a wide
range of the photon energies. Perhaps we will finally be able to study neutron
stars like stars.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.07000v1
Completing the Hydrogen Census in the Circumgalactic Medium at z~0
Over the past decade, Lyman-alpha and metal line absorption observations have
established the ubiquity of a gas-rich circumgalactic medium (CGM) around
star-forming galaxies at z~0.2 potentially tracing half of the missing baryonic
mass within galaxy halos. Unfortunately, these observations only provide a
statistical measure of the gas in the CGM and do not constrain the spatial
distribution and kinematics of the gas. Furthermore, we have limited
sensitivity to Lyman-alpha at z~0 with existing instruments. As such, we remain
ignorant of how this gas may flow from the CGM onto the disks of galaxies where
it can fuel ongoing star-formation in the present day. Fortunately, 21-cm HI
observations with radio telescopes can map HI emission providing both spatial
and kinematic information for the CGM in galaxies at z=0. Observations with
phased array feeds, radio cameras, on single-dish telescopes yield unmatched
surface brightness sensitivity and survey speed. These observations can
complete the census of HI in the CGM below N(HI)<10^17 cm^-2 and constrain how
gas accretion is proceeding in the local universe, particularly when used in
concert with UV absorption line data.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.07370v1
Twelve Decades: Probing the Interstellar Medium from kiloparsec to
  sub-AU scales
After a decade of great progress in understanding gas flow into, out of, and
through the Milky Way, we are poised to merge observations with simulations to
build a comprehensive picture of the multi-scale magnetized interstellar medium
(ISM). These insights will also be crucial to four bold initiatives in the
2020s: detecting nanohertz gravitational waves with pulsar timing arrays
(PTAs), decoding fast radio bursts (FRBs), cosmic B-mode detection, and imaging
the Milky Way's black hole with the Event Horizon Telescope (EHT).

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.07553v1
Prospects for AGN Studies at Hard X-ray through MeV Energies
This White Paper explores advances in the study of Active Galaxies which will
be enabled by new observing capabilities at MeV energies (hard X-rays to
gamma-rays; 0.1-1000 MeV), with a focus on multi-wavelength synergies. This
spectral window, covering four decades in energy, is one of the last frontiers
for which we lack sensitive observations. Only the COMPTEL mission, which flew
in the 1990s, has significantly probed this energy range, detecting a handful
of AGN. In comparison, the currently active Fermi Gamma-ray Space Telescope,
observing at the adjacent range of 0.1-100 GeV, is 100-1000 times more
sensitive. This White Paper describes advances to be made in the study of
sources as diverse as tidal disruption events, jetted AGN of all classes
(blazars, compact steep-spectrum sources, radio galaxies and relics) as well as
radio-quiet AGN, most of which would be detected for the first time in this
energy regime. New and existing technologies will enable MeV observations at
least 50-100 times more sensitive than COMPTEL, revealing new source
populations and addressing several open questions, including the nature of the
corona emission in non-jetted AGN, the precise level of the optical
extragalactic background light, the accretion mode in low-luminosity AGN, and
the structure and particle content of extragalactic jets.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.07623v1
Detecting the Birth of Supermassive Black Holes Formed from Heavy Seeds
In this white paper we explore the capabilities required to identify and
study supermassive black holes formed from heavy seeds ($\mathrm{M_{\bullet}}
\sim 10^4 - 10^6 \, \mathrm{M_{\odot}}$) in the early Universe. To obtain an
unequivocal detection of heavy seeds we need to probe mass scales of $\sim
10^{5-6} \, \mathrm{M_{\odot}}$ at redshift $z \gtrsim 10$. From this
theoretical perspective, we review the observational requirements and how they
compare with planned/proposed instruments, in the infrared, X-ray and
gravitational waves realms. In conclusion, detecting heavy black hole seeds at
$z \gtrsim 10$ in the next decade will be challenging but, according to current
theoretical models, feasible with upcoming/proposed facilities. Their detection
will be fundamental to understand the early history of the Universe, as well as
its evolution until now. Shedding light on the dawn of black holes will
certainly be one of the key tasks that the astronomical community will focus on
in the next decade.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.07628v1
Time-Domain Photometry of Protostars at Far-Infrared and Submillimeter
  Wavelengths
The majority of the ultimate main-sequence mass of a star is assembled in the
protostellar phase, where a forming star is embedded in an infalling envelope
and encircled by a protoplanetary disk. Studying mass accretion in protostars
is thus a key to understanding how stars gain their mass and ultimately how
their disks and planets form and evolve. At this early stage, the dense
envelope reprocesses most of the luminosity generated by accretion to
far-infrared and submillimeter wavelengths. Time-domain photometry at these
wavelengths is needed to probe the physics of accretion onto protostars, but
variability studies have so far been limited, in large part because of the
difficulty in accessing these wavelengths from the ground. We discuss the
scientific progress that would be enabled with far-infrared and submillimeter
programs to probe protostellar variability in the nearest kiloparsec.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.07636v1
Following the Metals in the Intergalactic and Circumgalactic Medium over
  Cosmic Time
The circumgalactic medium (CGM) of galaxies serves as a record of the
influences of outflows and accretion that drive the evolution of galaxies.
Feedback from star formation drives outflows that carry mass and metals away
from galaxies to the CGM, while infall from the intergalactic medium (IGM) is
thought to bring in fresh gas to fuel star formation. Such exchanges of matter
between IGM-CGM-galaxies have proven critical to producing galaxy scaling
relations in cosmological simulations that match observations. However, the
nature of these processes, of the physics that drives outflows and accretion,
and their evolution with cosmic time are not fully characterized. One approach
to constraining these processes is to characterize the metal enrichment of gas
around and beyond galaxies. Measurements of the metallicity distribution
functions of CGM/IGM gas over cosmic time provide independent tests of
cosmological simulations. We have made great progress over the last decade as
direct result of a very sensitive, high-resolution space-based UV spectrograph
and the rise of ground-based spectroscopic archives. We argue the next
transformative leap to track CGM/IGM metals during the epoch of galaxy
formation and transformation into quiescent galaxies will require 1) a larger
space telescope with an even more sensitive high-resolution spectrograph
covering both the far- and near-UV (1,000-3,000 \AA); and 2) ground-based
archives housing science-ready data.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.07691v1
Exploring the composition of icy bodies at the fringes of the Solar
  System with next generation space telescopes
Determining the distribution and spectral signature of volatile ices and
organics exposed on icy body surfaces can provide crucial clues for deciphering
how the outer solar system formed and evolved. Over the past few decades,
ground- and space-based telescope observations have probed the compositions of
a wide range of icy objects with primordial and processed surfaces, revealing
the presence of numerous volatile ices and organic residues. Although these
telescope observations have advanced our understanding of icy bodies beyond
Saturn, the sensitivity and spatial resolution of collected datasets are
limited by the large heliocentric distances of these far-flung objects.
Furthermore, most observations have focused on the visible (VIS, 0.4 - 0.7
microns) and near-infrared (NIR, 0.7 - 2.5 microns), with fewer observations at
longer NIR wavelengths (2.5 - 5.0 microns) and in the far to near ultraviolet
(UV, 0.1 - 0.4 microns), which represents a critical wavelength region for
investigating modification of ices and organics by UV photolysis and charged
particle radiolysis. Thus, our understanding of icy bodies beyond Saturn is
limited by the capabilities of available facilities, and key questions
regarding their surface compositions remain to be explored. Next generation
space telescopes (NGSTs) with greater sensitivity and angular resolution in the
UV, VIS, and longer NIR are therefore needed to help unveil the surface
compositions of icy bodies residing at the fringes of our solar system.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.07828v1
Big Science with a nUV-MidIR Rapid-Response 1.3m telescope at L2
Time-domain Astrophysics (TDA), a foundation of Astronomy, has become a major
part of current and projected (2020s) astrophysics. While much has been derived
from temporal measures of flux and color, the real physics comes from
spectroscopy. With LSST coming on line in 2022, with TDA as one of its original
drivers, the deluge of Transients and new types of variables will be truly
astronomical. With multi-wavelength targeted EM surveys and multi-messenger
(e.g. LIGO-international and advanced ICECUBE), and the possibility of full-sky
and full-time X-ray imagers, the discovery of new Transients and Variables will
flood telescopes on the ground and in space, and this just for multi-band
imaging without spectroscopy. In this White Paper we briefly summarize several
long-standing major science objectives that can be realized with TDA imaging
and spectroscopy (near UV to mid IR) from space. We provide a brief description
of how these can be achieved with the Time-domain Spectroscopic Observatory
(TSO), a Probe-Class mission concept that ELTs on the ground and Flagship
missions in space can not achieve on their own.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.08180v1
Measurement of the Free-Floating Planet Mass Function with Simultaneous
  Euclid and WFIRST Microlensing Parallax Observations
Free-floating planets are the remnants of violent dynamical rearrangements of
planetary systems. It is possible that even our own solar system ejected a
large planet early in its evolution. WFIRST will have the ability to detect
free-floating planets over a wide range of masses, but it will not be able to
directly measure their masses. Microlensing parallax observations can be used
to measure the masses of isolated objects, including free-floating planets, by
observing their microlensing events from two locations. The intra-L2 separation
between WFIRST and Euclid is large enough to enable microlensing parallax
measurements, especially given the exquisite photometric precision that both
spacecraft are capable of over wide fields. In this white paper we describe how
a modest investment of observing time could yield hundreds of parallax
measurements for WFIRST's bound and free-floating planets. We also describe how
a short observing campaign of precursor observations by Euclid can improve
WFIRST's bound planet and host star mass measurements.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.08184v1
Probing the Time Domain with High Spatial Resolution
Two groundbreaking new facilities will commence operations early in the 2020s
and thereafter define much of the broad landscape of US optical-infrared
astronomy in the remaining decade. The Large Synoptic Survey Telescope (LSST),
perched atop Cerro Pachon in the Chilean Andes, will revolutionize the young
field of Time Domain Astronomy through its wide-field, multi-band optical
imaging survey. At the same time, the James Webb Space Telescope (JWST),
orbiting at the Sun-Earth L2 Lagrange point, will provide stunningly
high-resolution views of selected targets from the red end of the optical
spectrum to the mid-infrared. However, the spatial resolution of the LSST
observations will be limited by atmospheric seeing, while JWST will be limited
in its time-domain capabilities. This paper highlights the scientific
opportunities lying between these two landmark missions, i.e., science enabled
by systems capable of astronomical observations with both high cadence in the
time domain and high resolution in the spatial domain. The opportunities range
from constraining the late phases of stellar evolution in nearby resolved
populations to constraining dark matter distributions and cosmology using
lensed transient sources. We describe a system that can deliver the required
capabilities.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.08653v2
Gravitational Waves, Extreme Astrophysics, and Fundamental Physics with
  Precision Pulsar Timing
Precision pulsar timing at the level of tens to hundreds of nanoseconds
allows detection of nanohertz gravitational waves (GWs) from supermassive
binary black holes (SMBBHs) at the cores of merging galaxies and, potentially,
from exotic sources such as cosmic strings. The same timing data used for GW
astronomy also yield precision masses of neutron stars orbiting other compact
objects, constraints on the equation of state of nuclear matter, and precision
tests of General Relativity, the Strong Equivalence Principle, and alternative
theories of gravity. Timing can also lead to stringent constraints on the
photon mass and on changes in fundamental constants and could reveal low mass
objects (rogue planets, dark matter clumps) that traverse pulsar lines of
sight. Data sets also allow modeling of the density, magnetic field, and
turbulence in the interstellar plasma. Roughly 100 millisecond pulsars (MSPs)
are currently being timed at $\sim$GHz frequencies using the largest radio
telescopes in the world. These data sets currently represent ~1000 pulsar-years
and will increase dramatically over the next decade. These topics are presented
as a program of key science with flowdown technical requirements for achieving
the science.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.08757v1
Studying Magnetic Fields in Star Formation and the Turbulent
  Interstellar Medium
Understanding the physics of how stars form is a highly-prioritized goal of
modern Astrophysics, in part because star formation is linked to both galactic
dynamics on large scales and to the formation of planets on small scales. It is
well-known that stars form from the gravitational collapse of molecular clouds,
which are in turn formed out of the turbulent interstellar medium. Star
formation is highly inefficient, with one of the likely culprits being the
regulation against gravitational collapse provided by magnetic fields.
Measurement of the polarized emission from interstellar dust grains, which are
partially aligned with the magnetic field, provides a key tool for
understanding the role these fields play in the star formation process. Over
the past decade, much progress has been made by the most recent generation of
polarimeters operating over a range of wavelengths (from the far-infrared
through the millimeter part of the spectrum) and over a range of angular
resolutions (from less than an arcsecond through fractions of a degree). Future
developments in instrument sensitivity for ground-based, airborne, and
space-borne polarimeters operating over range of spatial scales are critical
for enabling revolutionary steps forward in our understanding of the magnetized
turbulence from which stars are formed.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.08993v1
Metal Abundances and Depletions in the Neutral Interstellar Medium of
  Galaxies: the Local Volume as a Laboratory
The comparison of chemical abundances in the neutral gas of galaxies to
photospheric abundances of old and young stars, ionized gas abundances, and
abundances in galactic halos can trace the chemical enrichment of the universe
through cosmic times. In particular, our understanding of chemical enrichment
through spectroscopic observations of damped Lyman alpha systems (DLAs) relies
on corrections for depletion of metals from the gas to the dust phase. These
corrections must be determined in the nearby universe, where both gas-phase
abundances and photospheric abundances of young stars recently formed out of
the interstellar medium can be measured. Multi-object high-resolution
(R>50,000) ultraviolet (970-2400 A) and optical (300-600 nm) spectroscopy
toward massive stars in local volume galaxies (D < 15 Mpc) covering a wide
range of metallicities (a few % solar to solar) and morphological types will
provide the abundance and depletion measurements needed to obtain a detailed
and comprehensive characterization of the lifecycle of metals in neutral gas
and dust in galaxies, thereby observationally addressing important questions
about chemical enrichment and galaxy evolution.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.09173v1
Characterizing the Atmospheres of Irradiated Exoplanets at High Spectral
  Resolution
The best-characterized exoplanets to date are planets on close-in transiting
orbits around their host stars. The high level of irradiation and transiting
geometry of these objects make them ideal targets for atmospheric
investigations. However, the modest apertures of many current telescopes allow
mostly low resolution spectra to be observed for transiting planets, failing to
extract key physical and chemical properties of their atmospheres. Ground-based
30-meter class telescopes will set the stage for a substantial leap in our
understanding of exoplanet atmospheres. We outline a two-pronged survey,
recently submitted as a Key Science Project (KSP) for the US ELTs, which would
yield unprecedented insight into the atmospheres of close-in exoplanets via
combined observations with the GMT and TMT. (1) The first opportunity involves
measuring the global-scale atmospheric circulation and planetary rotation for a
sample of 40 hot Jupiters to glean insight into the unique radiative forcing
regime governing highly-irradiated, tidally-locked giant planets. (2) The
second opportunity involves measuring atmospheric mass-loss and extracting
atmospheric composition and abundance ratio information for $\sim60$
sub-Neptunes and super-Earths (including candidate disintegrating planets) to
constrain their formation and evolution histories. These efforts would be made
possible by the unparalleled combination of high spectral resolution
instrumentation and large aperture size of the ELTs. This survey would enable
the first statistical study of atmospheric circulation in extrasolar giant
planets, and would provide detections of trace gases and measurements of
atmospheric escape in small-planet atmospheres, far exceeding the reach of
\textit{JWST}.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.09306v1
Understanding Accretion Outbursts in Massive Protostars through Maser
  Imaging
The bright maser emission produced by several molecular species at centimeter
to long millimeter wavelengths provides an essential tool for understanding the
process of massive star formation. Unimpeded by the high dust optical depths
that affect shorter wavelength observations, the high brightness temperature of
these emission lines offers a way to resolve accretion and outflow motions down
to scales below $\sim$1 au in deeply embedded Galactic star-forming regions at
kiloparsec distances. The recent identification of extraordinary accretion
outbursts in two high-mass protostars, both of which were heralded by maser
flares, has rapidly impacted the traditional view of massive protostellar
evolution, leading to new hydrodynamic simulations that can produce such
episodic outbursts. In order to understand how these massive protostars evolve
in response to such events, larger, more sensitive ground-based centimeter
wavelength interferometers are needed that can simultaneously image multiple
maser species in the molecular gas along with faint continuum from the central
ionized gas. Fiducial observations of a large sample of massive protostars will
be essential in order to pinpoint the progenitors of future accretion
outbursts, and to quantify the outburst-induced changes in their protostellar
photospheres and outflow and accretion structures. Knowledge gained from these
studies will have broader impact on the general topic of accretion onto massive
objects.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.09529v1
AGN (and other) astrophysics with Gravitational Wave Events
The stellar mass binary black hole (sBBH) mergers presently detected by LIGO
may originate wholly or in part from binary black hole mergers embedded in
disks of gas around supermassive black holes. Determining the contribution of
these active galactic nucleus (AGN) disks to the sBBH merger rate enables us to
uniquely measure important parameters of AGN disks, including their typical
density, aspect ratio, and lifetime, thereby putting unique limits on an
important element of galaxy formation. For the first time, gravitational waves
will allow us to reveal the properties of the hidden interior of AGN disks,
while electromagnetic radiation (EM) probes the disk photosphere. The
localization of sBBH merger events from LIGO is generally insufficient for
association with a single EM counterpart. However, the contribution to the LIGO
event rate from rare source types (such as AGNs) can be determined on a
statistical basis. To determine the contribution to the sBBH rate from AGNs in
the next decade requires: {\em 1) a complete galaxy catalog for the LIGO search
volume, 2) strategic multi-wavelength EM follow-up of LIGO events and 3)
significant advances in theoretical understanding of AGN disks and the behavior
of objects embedded within them.}

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.09858v1
Astro 2020 Science White Paper: Time Domain Studies of Neutron Star and
  Black Hole Populations: X-ray Identification of Compact Object Types
What are the most important conditions and processes governing the growth of
stellar-origin compact objects? The identification of compact object type as
either black hole (BH) or neutron star (NS) is fundamental to understanding
their formation and evolution. To date, time-domain determination of compact
object type remains a relatively untapped tool. Measurement of orbital periods,
pulsations, and bursts will lead to a revolution in the study of the
demographics of NS and BH populations, linking source phenomena to accretion
and galaxy parameters (e.g., star formation, metallicity). To perform these
measurements over sufficient parameter space, a combination of a wide-field
(>5000 deg^2) transient X-ray monitor over a dynamic energy range (~1-100 keV)
and an X-ray telescope for deep surveys with <5 arcsec PSF half-energy width
(HEW) angular resolution are required. Synergy with multiwavelength data for
characterizing the underlying stellar population will transform our
understanding of the time domain properties of transient sources, helping to
explain details of supernova explosions and gravitational wave event rates.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.09995v1
Interstellar Dust Grains: Ultraviolet and Mid-IR Extinction Curves
Interstellar dust plays a central role in shaping the detailed structure of
the interstellar medium, thus strongly influencing star formation and galaxy
evolution. Dust extinction provides one of the main pillars of our
understanding of interstellar dust while also often being one of the limiting
factors when interpreting observations of distant objects, including resolved
and unresolved galaxies. The ultraviolet (UV) and mid-infrared (MIR) wavelength
regimes exhibit features of the main components of dust, carbonaceous and
silicate materials, and therefore provide the most fruitful avenue for detailed
extinction curve studies. Our current picture of extinction curves is strongly
biased to nearby regions in the Milky Way. The small number of UV extinction
curves measured in the Local Group (mainly Magellanic Clouds) clearly indicates
that the range of dust properties is significantly broader than those inferred
from the UV extinction characteristics of local regions of the Milky Way.
Obtaining statistically significant samples of UV and MIR extinction
measurements for all the dusty Local Group galaxies will provide, for the first
time, a basis for understanding dust grains over a wide range of environments.
Obtaining such observations requires sensitive medium-band UV, blue-optical,
and mid-IR imaging and followup R ~ 1000 spectroscopy of thousands of sources.
Such a census will revolutionize our understanding of the dependence of dust
properties on local environment providing both an empirical description of the
effects of dust on observations as well as strong constraints on dust grain and
evolution models.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.10616v1
Probing Unseen Planet Populations with Resolved Debris Disk Structures
Thousands of exoplanets have been found with many widely different from the
ones in our own system. Despite the success, systems with planets in wide
orbits analogous to those of Jupiter and Saturn, in the critical first several
hundred million years of evolution, are virtually unexplored. Where are the
low-mass planets that are hidden from our exoplanet detection techniques? Is
our Solar System's planetary architecture unique? High-fidelity debris disk
images offer an effective method to answer these questions. We can use them to
study the formation and evolution of low-mass planets from youth to the age of
the Solar System, providing snapshots of the complex processes and valuable
insights into the formation and migration history of giant planets at wide
orbits. This white paper focuses on resolving debris structures in thermal
emission that is applicable to a large unbiased sample. We summarize the
properties of the known debris disks and assess the feasibility of resolving
them within our current and future infrared and millimeter facilities by
adopting uniform criteria. JWST and the 9-m Origins Space Telescope are the
most promising missions in the coming decades to resolve almost half of the
known disks at high fidelity. Resolved debris structures at multiple
wavelengths and at all stages of evolution would reveal the properties of
unseen planet populations, enabling a unique demographic study of overall
planet formation and evolution.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.10649v1
The Panchromatic Circumgalactic Medium
Galaxies are surrounded by extended atmospheres, which are often called the
circumgalactic medium (CGM) and are the least understood part of galactic
ecosystems. The CGM serves as a reservoir of both diffuse, metal-poor gas
accreted from the intergalactic medium, and metal-rich gas that is either
ejected from galaxies by energetic feedback or stripped from infalling
satellites. As such, the CGM is empirically multi-phased and complex in
dynamics. Significant progress has been made in the past decade or so in
observing the cosmic-ray/B-field, as well as various phases of the CGM. But
basic questions remain to be answered. First, what are the energy, mass, and
metal contents of the CGM? More specifically, how are they spatially
distributed and partitioned in the different components? Moreover, how are they
linked to properties of host galaxies and their global clustering and
intergalactic medium environments? Lastly, what are the origin, state, and
life-cycle of the CGM? This question explores the dynamics of the CGM. Here we
illustrate how these questions may be addressed with multi-wavelength
observations of the CGM.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.11065v1
Precision measurement of magnetic field from near to far, from fine to
  large scales in ISM
Magnetic fields have important or dominant effects in many areas of
astrophysics, but have been very difficult to quantify. Spectropolarimetry from
Ground State Alignment (GSA) has been suggested as a direct tracer of magnetic
field in interstellar diffuse medium. Owing to the long life of the atoms on
ground states the Larmor precession in an external magnetic field imprints the
direction of the field onto the polarization of absorbing species. This
provides a unique tool for studies of sub-gauss magnetic fields using
polarimetry of UV, optical and radio lines. Many spectral lines with strong
signals from GSA are in the UV band. By discerning magnetic fields in gas with
different dynamical properties, high spectral resolution measurement of
spectral polarization will allow the study of 3D magnetic field distribution
and interstellar turbulence. GSA provides also a unique chance to map 3D
direction of magnetic field on small scales, e.g., disks, where grain alignment
is unreliable. The range of objects suitable for studies is extremely wide and
includes magnetic fields in the interplanetary medium, in the interstellar
medium, and in circumstellar regions as well as diffuse media in extragalactic
objects.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.11692v1
Realizing the Unique Potential of ALMA to Probe the Gas Reservoir of
  Planet Formation
Understanding the origin of the astonishing diversity of exoplanets is a key
question for the coming decades. ALMA has revolutionized our view of the dust
emission from protoplanetary disks, demonstrating the prevalence of ring and
spiral structures that are likely sculpted by young planets in formation. To
detect kinematic signatures of these protoplanets and to probe the chemistry of
their gas accretion reservoir will require the imaging of molecular spectral
line emission at high angular and spectral resolution. However, the current
sensitivity of ALMA limits these important spectral studies to only the nearest
protoplanetary disks. Although some promising results are emerging, including
the identification of the snowlines of a few key molecules and the first
attempt at detecting a protoplanet's spiral wake, it is not yet possible to
search for these important signatures in a population of disks in diverse
environments and ages. Harnessing the tremendous power of (sub)mm observations
to pinpoint and characterize the chemistry of planets in formation will require
a major increase of ALMA's spectral sensitivity (5-10x), increase in
instantaneous bandwidth (2x) at high spectral resolution, and improved angular
resolution (2x) in the 2030 era.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.11744v1
Tomography of the Cosmic Dawn and Reionization Eras with Multiple
  Tracers
The Cosmic Dawn and Reionization epochs remain a fundamental but challenging
frontier of astrophysics and cosmology. We advocate a large-scale, multi-tracer
approach to develop a comprehensive understanding of the physics that led to
the formation and evolution of the first stars and galaxies. We highlight the
line intensity mapping technique to trace the multi-phase reionization topology
on large scales, and measure reionization history in detail. Besides 21cm, we
advocate for Lya tomography mapping during the epoch of Wouthuysen-Field
coupling as an additional probe of the cosmic dawn era.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.12016v1
Dark Energy and Modified Gravity
Despite two decades of tremendous experimental and theoretical progress, the
riddle of the accelerated expansion of the Universe remains to be solved. On
the experimental side, our understanding of the possibilities and limitations
of the major dark energy probes has evolved; here we summarize the major probes
and their crucial challenges. On the theoretical side, the taxonomy of
explanations for the accelerated expansion rate is better understood, providing
clear guidance to the relevant observables. We argue that: i) improving
statistical precision and systematic control by taking more data, supporting
research efforts to address crucial challenges for each probe, using
complementary methods, and relying on cross-correlations is well motivated; ii)
blinding of analyses is difficult but ever more important; iii) studies of dark
energy and modified gravity are related; and iv) it is crucial that R&D for a
vibrant dark energy program in the 2030s be started now by supporting studies
and technical R&D that will allow embryonic proposals to mature. Understanding
dark energy, arguably the biggest unsolved mystery in both fundamental particle
physics and cosmology, will remain one of the focal points of cosmology in the
forthcoming decade.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1904.04319v1
Understanding Galactic Star Formation with Next Generation X-ray
  Spectroscopy and Imaging
This white paper is motivated by open questions in star formation, which can
be uniquely addressed by high resolution X-ray imaging and require an X-ray
observatory with large collecting area along good spectral resolution. A
complete census of star-forming regions in X-rays, combined with well matched
infrared (IR) data, will advance our understanding of disk survival times and
dissipation mechanisms. In addition, we will be able to directly observe the
effects of X-ray irradiation on circumstellar grain growth to compare with
grain evolution models in both high- and low-UV environments. X-rays are native
to stars at all phases of star formation and affect planet-forming disks
especially through flares. Moreover, X-rays trace magnetic fields which weave
through the flares, providing a unique, non-gravitational feedback mechanism
between disk and star. Finally, the bright X-ray emission emanating from hot
plasma associated with massive stars can have large scale impacts on the
topology of star-forming regions and their interface with the interstellar
medium (ISM).

http://arxiv.org/abs/1904.04531v1
Early evolution of galaxies and of large-scale structure from CMB
  experiments
Next generation CMB experiments with arcmin resolution will, for free, lay
the foundations for a real breakthrough on the study of the early evolution of
galaxies and galaxy clusters, thanks to the detection of large samples of
strongly gravitationally lensed galaxies and of proto-clusters of dusty
galaxies up to high redshifts. This has an enormous legacy value. High
resolution follow-up of strongly lensed galaxies will allow the direct
investigation of their structure and kinematics up to z~6, providing direct
information on physical processes driving their evolution. Follow-up of
proto-clusters will allow an observational validation of the formation history
of the most massive dark matter halos up to z~4, well beyond the redshift range
accessible via X-ray or SZ measurements. These experiments will also allow a
giant leap forward in the determination of polarization properties of
extragalactic sources, and will provide a complete census of cold dust
available for star formation in the local universe.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1904.05769v1
Radio sources in next-generation CMB surveys
CMB surveys provide, for free, blindly selected samples of extragalactic
radio sources at much higher frequencies than traditional radio surveys.
Next-generation, ground-based CMB experiments with arcmin resolution at mm
wavelengths will provide samples of thousands radio sources allowing the
investigation of the evolutionary properties of blazar populations, the study
of the earliest and latest stages of radio activity, the discovery of rare
phenomena and of new transient sources and events. Space-borne experiments will
extend to sub-mm wavelengths the determinations of the SEDs of many hundreds of
blazars, in temperature and in polarization, allowing us to investigate the
flow and the structure of relativistic jets close to their base, and the
electron acceleration mechanisms. A real breakthrough will be achieved in the
caracterization of the polarization properties. The first direct counts in
polarization will be obtained, enabling a solid assessment of the
extra-galactic source contamination of CMB maps and allowing us to understand
structure and intensity of magnetic fields, particle densities and structures
of emitting regions close to the base of the jet.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1904.06160v1
Opportunities in Time-Domain Extragalactic Astrophysics with the NASA
  Near-Earth Object Camera (NEOCam)
This White Pape motivates the time domain extragalactic science case for the
NASA Near-Earth Object Camera (NEOCam). NEOCam is a NASA Planetary mission
whose goal is to discover and characterize asteroids and comets, to assess the
hazard to Earth from near-Earth objects, and to study the origin, evolution,
and fate of asteroids and comets. NEOCam will, however, cover 68% of the
extragalactic sky and as the NEOWISE-R mission has recently proved, infrared
information is now vital for identifying and characterizing the $\gtrsim$10
million IR bright Active Galactic Nuclei, as well as using the IR light curve
to provide deep insights into accretion disk astrophysics. NEOWISE-R data has
also been used to discover Super-luminous Supernovae, dust echos in Tidal
Disruption Events and detects all of the known $z\geq7$ quasars (and over 80%
of the known $z\geq6.70$ quasars). As such, for relatively little additional
cost, adding the capacity for additional NEOCam data processing (and/or
alerting) would have a massive scientific and legacy impact on extragalactic
time domain science.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1904.08797v1
Debris Disk Composition: A Diagnostic Tool for Planet Formation and
  Migration
Debris disks are exoplanetary systems containing planets, minor bodies (such
as asteroids and comets) and debris dust. Unseen planets are presumed to
perturb the minor bodies into crossing orbits, generating small dust grains
that are detected via remote sensing. Debris disks have been discovered around
main sequence stars of a variety of ages (from 10 Myr to several Gyr) and
stellar spectral types (from early A-type to M-type stars). As a result, they
serve as excellent laboratories for understanding whether the architecture and
the evolution of our Solar System is common or rare. This white paper addresses
two outstanding questions in debris disk science: (1) Are debris disk minor
bodies similar to asteroids and comets in our Solar System? (2) Do planets
separate circumstellar material into distinct reservoirs and/or mix material
during planet migration? We anticipate that SOFIA/HIRMES, JWST, and WFIRST/CGI
will greatly improve our understanding of debris disk composition, enabling the
astronomical community to answer these questions. However, we note that despite
their observational power, these facilities will not provide large numbers of
detections or detailed characterization of cold ices and silicates in the Trans
Neptunian zone. Origins Space Telescope is needed to revolutionize our
understanding of the bulk composition and mixing in exoplanetary systems.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1904.09003v1
Gravitational probes of ultra-light axions
The axion is a hypothetical, well-motivated dark-matter particle whose
existence would explain the lack of charge-parity violation in the strong
interaction. In addition to this original motivation, an `axiverse' of
ultra-light axions (ULAs) with masses $10^{-33}\,{\rm eV}\lesssim m_{\rm
a}\lesssim 10^{-10}\,{\rm eV}$ also emerges from string theory. Depending on
the mass, such a ULA contributes to the dark-matter density, or alternatively,
behaves like dark energy. At these masses, ULAs' classical wave-like properties
are astronomically manifested, potentially mitigating observational tensions
within the $\Lambda$CDM paradigm on local-group scales. ULAs also provide
signatures on small scales such as suppression of structure, interference
patterns and solitons to distinguish them from heavier dark matter candidates.
Through their gravitational imprint, ULAs in the presently allowed parameter
space furnish a host of observational tests to target in the next decade,
altering standard predictions for microwave background anisotropies, galaxy
clustering, Lyman-$\alpha$ absorption by neutral hydrogen along quasar
sightlines, pulsar timing, and the black-hole mass spectrum.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1904.10012v1
Astro2020 White Paper: On the Origin of the Initial Mass Function
It is usually assumed that the stellar initial mass function (IMF) takes a
universal form and that there exists a direct mapping between this and the
distribution of natal core masses (the core mass function, CMF). The IMF and
CMF have been best characterized in the Solar neighborhood. Beyond 500~pc from
the Sun, in diverse environments where metallicity varies and massive star
feedback may dominate, the IMF has been measured only incompletely and
imprecisely, while the CMF has hardly been measured at all. In order to
establish if the IMF and CMF are indeed universal and related to each other, it
is necessary to: 1) perform multi-wavelength large-scale imaging and
spectroscopic surveys of different environments across the Galaxy; 2) require
an angular resolution of < 0.1'' in the optical/near-IR for stars and < 5'' in
the far-IR for cores; 3) achieve far-IR sensitivities to probe 0.1~Msol cores
at 2--3 kpc.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1904.10994v1
The Life Cycle of Dust
Dust offers a unique probe of the interstellar medium (ISM) across multiple
size, density, and temperature scales. Dust is detected in outflows of evolved
stars, star-forming molecular clouds, planet-forming disks, and even in
galaxies at the dawn of the Universe. These grains also have a profound effect
on various astrophysical phenomena from thermal balance and extinction in
galaxies to the building blocks for planets, and changes in dust grain
properties will affect all of these phenomena. A full understanding of dust in
all of its forms and stages requires a multi-disciplinary investigation of the
dust life cycle. Such an investigation can be achieved with a statistical study
of dust properties across stellar evolution, star and planet formation, and
redshift. Current and future instrumentation will enable this investigation
through fast and sensitive observations in dust continuum, polarization, and
spectroscopy from near-infrared to millimeter wavelengths.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1904.12790v1
Astro 2020: Astromineralogy of interstellar dust with X-ray spectroscopy
X-ray absorption fine structure (XAFS) in the 0.2-2 keV band is a crucial
component in multi-wavelength studies of dust mineralogy, size, and shape --
parameters that are necessary for interpreting astronomical observations and
building physical models across all fields, from cosmology to exoplanets.
Despite its importance, many fundamental questions about dust remain open. What
is the origin of the dust that suffuses the interstellar medium (ISM)? Where is
the missing interstellar oxygen? How does iron, predominantly produced by Type
Ia supernovae, become incorporated into dust? What is the main form of carbon
in the ISM, and how does it differ from carbon in stellar winds? The next
generation of X-ray observatories, employing microcalorimeter technology and $R
\equiv \lambda/\Delta \lambda \geq 3000$ gratings, will provide pivotal
insights for these questions by measuring XAFS in absorption and scattering.
However, lab measurements of mineralogical candidates for astrophysical dust,
with R > 1000, are needed to fully take advantage of the coming observations.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1905.00311v1
Astro2020 Science White Paper: Making the Connection between Feedback
  andSpatially Resolved Emission Line Diagnostics
Crucial progress in our understanding of star formation and feedback will
depend on the ability to obtain spatially resolved spectroscopic observations
of \ion{H}{ii} regions, from which reliable instantaneous measurements of their
physical conditions can be obtained. Acquiring these datasets across full
galactic systems will prove crucial for obtaining population samples that
enable us to understand the time evolution of similar regions, and the
variability of conditions among coeval regions. Separating the spatial and
temporal dependencies in such way for different physical processes involved in
star formation and the injection of feedback is crucial to overcome the inherit
degeneracies associated with observing instantaneous snapshots of a dynamic ISM
at any given time. Emission line diagnostics are at the core of measuring the
physical condition in \ion{H}{ii} regions (e.g. dynamics, SFR, chemical
abundances, dust extinction, ionization and excitation, etc.). These
measurements require high spatial resolution, contiguous coverage across full
galactic systems, and sensitivities significantly deeper than past efforts. The
spatial scale required to resolve the \ion{H}{ii} regions of a few pc is only
attainable in the Local Group where very large sky coverage is necessary.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1905.05808v1
The Radio Universe at Low Surface Brightness: Feedback & accretion in
  the circumgalactic medium
Massive galaxies at high-z are known to co-evolve with their circumgalactic
medium (CGM). If we want to truly understand the role of the CGM in the early
evolution of galaxies and galaxy-clusters, we need to fully explore the
multi-phase nature of the CGM. We present two novel science cases that utilize
low-surface-brightness observations in the radio regime to better understand
the CGM around distant galaxies. At the lowest temperatures, observations of
widespread molecular gas are providing evidence for the cold baryon cycle that
grows massive galaxies. At the highest temperatures, observations of the
Sunyaev-Zeldovich Effect are starting to reveal the effect of quasar feedback
onto the hot gas in the CGM. We discuss the critical role that radio
interferometers with compact configurations in the millimeter regime will play
over the next decade in understanding the crucial role of the multi-phase CGM
in galaxy evolution.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1905.11439v1
Resolving the cosmic X-ray background with a next-generation high-energy
  X-ray observatory
The cosmic X-ray background (CXB), which peaks at an energy of ~30 keV, is
produced primarily by emission from accreting supermassive black holes (SMBHs).
The CXB therefore serves as a constraint on the integrated SMBH growth in the
Universe and the accretion physics and obscuration in active galactic nuclei
(AGNs). This paper gives an overview of recent progress in understanding the
high-energy (>~10 keV) X-ray emission from AGNs and the synthesis of the CXB,
with an emphasis on results from NASA's NuSTAR hard X-ray mission. We then
discuss remaining challenges and open questions regarding the nature of AGN
obscuration and AGN physics. Finally, we highlight the exciting opportunities
for a next-generation, high-resolution hard X-ray mission to achieve the
long-standing goal of resolving and characterizing the vast majority of the
accreting SMBHs that produce the CXB.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1907.04893v1
The Nonbinary Fraction: Looking Towards the Future of Gender Equity in
  Astronomy
Gender equity is one of the biggest issues facing the field of astrophysics,
and there is broad interest in addressing gender disparities within astronomy.
Many studies of these topics have been performed by professional astronomers
who are relatively unfamiliar with research in fields such as gender studies
and sociology. As a result, they adopt a normative view of gender as a binary
choice of 'male' or 'female', leaving astronomers whose genders do not fit
within that model out of such research entirely. Reductive frameworks of gender
and an overemphasis on quantification as an indicator of gendered phenomena are
harmful to people of marginalized genders, especially those who live at the
intersections of multiple axes of marginalization such as race, disability, and
socioeconomic status. In order for the astronomy community to best serve its
marginalized members as we move into the next decade, a new paradigm must be
developed. This paper aims to address the future of gender equity in astronomy
by recommending better survey practices and institutional policies based on a
more complex approach to gender.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1907.05261v1
(Un)conscious Bias in the Astronomical Profession: Universal
  Recommendations to improve Fairness, Inclusiveness, and Representation
(Un)conscious bias affects every aspect of the astronomical profession, from
scientific activities (e.g., invitations to join collaborations, proposal
selections, grant allocations, publication review processes, and invitations to
attend and speak at conferences) to activities more strictly related to career
advancement (e.g., reference letters, fellowships, hiring, promotion, and
tenure). For many, (un)conscious bias is still the main hurdle to achieving
excellence, as the most diverse talents encounter bigger challenges and
difficulties to reach the same milestones than their more privileged
colleagues. Over the past few years, the Space Telescope Science Institute
(STScI) has constructed tools to raise awareness of (un)conscious bias and has
designed guidelines and goals to increase diversity representation and outcome
in its scientific activities, including career-related matters and STScI
sponsored fellowships, conferences, workshops, and colloquia. STScI has also
addressed (un)conscious bias in the peer-review process by anonymizing
submission and evaluation of Hubble Space Telescope (and soon to be James Webb
Space Telescope) observing proposals. In this white paper we present a plan to
standardize these methods with the expectation that these universal
recommendations will truly increase diversity, inclusiveness and fairness in
Astronomy if applied consistently throughout all the scientific activities of
the Astronomical community.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1907.05834v1
Absolute Prioritization of Planetary Protection, Safety, and Avoiding
  Imperialism in All Future Science Missions: A Policy Perspective
The prioritization and improvement of ethics, planetary protection, and
safety standards in the astro-sciences is the most critical priority as our
scientific and exploratory capabilities progress, both within government
agencies and the private sector. These priorities lie in the belief that every
single science mission - crewed or non-crewed, ground-based or not - should
heed strict ethical and safety standards starting at the very beginning of a
mission. Given the inevitability of the private sector in influencing future
crewed missions both in and beyond low-Earth orbit, it is essential to the
science community to agree on universal standards of safety, mission assurance,
planetary protection, and especially anti-colonization. These issues will
impact all areas of space science. Examples that are particularly relevant to
the Astro2020 Decadal Survey include but are not limited to: light pollution
from satellites, the voices and rights of Native people when constructing
telescopes on their lands, and the need to be cognizant of contamination when
searching for and exploring habitable environments beyond Earth. Ultimately,
moving international space law and domestic space policy from a reactive nature
to a proactive one will ensure the future of space exploration is one that is
safe, transparent, and anti-imperialist.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1907.06797v1
SpecTel: A 10-12 meter class Spectroscopic Survey Telescope
We recommend a conceptual design study for a spectroscopic facility in the
southern hemisphere comprising a large diameter telescope, fiber system, and
spectrographs collectively optimized for massively-multiplexed spectroscopy. As
a baseline, we propose an 11.4-meter aperture, optical spectroscopic survey
telescope with a five square degree field of view. Using current technologies,
the facility could be equipped with 15,000 robotically-controlled fibers
feeding spectrographs over 360<lambda<1330 nm with options for fiber-fed
spectrographs at high resolution and a panoramic IFU at a separate focus. This
would enable transformational progress via its ability to access a larger
fraction of objects from Gaia, LSST, Euclid, and WFIRST than any currently
funded or planned spectroscopic facility. An ESO-sponsored study
(arXiv:1701.01976) discussed the scientific potential in ambitious new
spectroscopic surveys in Galactic astronomy, extragalactic astronomy, and
cosmology. The US community should establish links with European and other
international communities to plan for such a powerful facility and maximize the
potential of large aperture multi-object spectroscopy given the considerable
investment in deep imaging surveys.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1907.07118v1
Primarily Undergraduate Institutions and the Astronomy Community
This White Paper highlights the role Primarily Undergraduate Institutions
(PUIs) play within the astronomy profession, addressing issues related to
employment, resources and support, research opportunities and productivity, and
educational and societal impacts, among others. Astronomers working at PUIs are
passionate about teaching and mentoring undergraduate students through
substantive astronomy experiences, all while working to continue research
programs that contribute to the advancement of the professional field of
astronomy. PUIs are where the majority of undergraduate students pursue
post-secondary education, and as such, understanding the unique challenges and
opportunities associated with PUIs is critical to fostering an inclusive
astronomy community throughout the next decade. We provide a view of the
profession as lived and experienced by faculty and students of PUIs, while
highlighting the unique opportunities, challenges, and obstacles routinely
faced. A variety of recommendations are outlined to provide the supporting
structures and resources needed for astronomy to thrive at PUIs over the next
decade and beyond - a critical step for a profession focused on fostering and
maintaining an inclusive, supportive, and diverse community.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1907.07348v1
NANOGrav Education and Outreach: Growing a Diverse and Inclusive
  Collaboration for Low-Frequency Gravitational Wave Astronomy
The new field of gravitational wave astrophysics requires a growing pool of
students and researchers with unique, interdisciplinary skill sets. It also
offers an opportunity to build a diverse, inclusive astronomy community from
the ground up. We describe the efforts used by the North American Nanohertz
Observatory for Gravitational Waves (NANOGrav) NSF Physics Frontiers Center to
foster such growth by involving students at all levels in low-frequency
gravitational wave astrophysics with pulsar timing arrays (PTAs) and
establishing collaboration policies that ensure broad participation by diverse
groups. We describe and illustrate the impact of these techniques on our
collaboration as a case study for other distributed collaborations.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1907.10558v1
Advanced Astrophysics Discovery Technology in the Era of Data Driven
  Astronomy
Experience suggests that structural issues in how institutional Astrophysics
approaches data-driven science and the development of discovery technology may
be hampering the community's ability to respond effectively to a rapidly
changing environment in which increasingly complex, heterogeneous datasets are
challenging our existing information infrastructure and traditional approaches
to analysis. We stand at the confluence of a new epoch of multimessenger
science, remote co-location of data and processing power and new observing
strategies based on miniaturized spacecraft. Significant effort will be
required by the community to adapt to this rapidly evolving range of possible
discovery moduses. In the suggested creation of a new Astrophysics element,
Advanced Astrophysics Discovery Technology, we offer an affirmative solution
that places the visibility of discovery technologies at a level that we suggest
is fully commensurate with their importance to the future of the field.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1907.10663v1
Setting the Stage for the Planet Formation Imager
An international group of scientists has begun planning for the Planet
Formation Imager (PFI, www.planetformationimager.org), a next-generation
infrared interferometer array with the primary goal of imaging the active
phases of planet formation in nearby star forming regions and taking planetary
system 'snapshots' of young systems to understand exoplanet architectures. PFI
will be sensitive to warm dust emission using mid-infrared capabilities made
possible by precise fringe tracking in the near-infrared. An L/M band beam
combiner will be especially sensitive to thermal emission from young exoplanets
(and their circumplanetary disks) with a high spectral resolution mode to probe
the kinematics of CO and H2O gas. In this brief White Paper, we summarize the
main science goals of PFI, define a baseline PFI architecture that can achieve
those goals, and identify key technical challenges that must be overcome before
the dreams of PFI can be realized within the typical cost envelope of a major
observatory. We also suggest activities over the next decade at the flagship US
facilities (CHARA, NPOI, MROI) that will help make the Planet Formation Imager
facility a reality. The key takeaway is that infrared interferometry will
require new experimental telescope designs that can scale to 8 m-class with the
potential to reduce per area costs by x10, a breakthrough that would also drive
major advances across astronomy.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1907.11700v1
Investing for Discovery in Astronomy
How should we invest our available resources to best sustain astronomy's
track record of discovery, established over the past few decades? Two strong
hints come from (1) our history of astronomical discoveries and (2) literature
citation patterns that reveal how discovery and development activities in
science are strong functions of team size. These argue that progress in
astronomy hinges on support for a diversity of research efforts in terms of
team size, research tools and platforms, and investment strategies that
encourage risk taking.
  These ideas also encourage us to examine the implications of the trend toward
"big team science" and "survey science" in astronomy over the past few decades,
and to reconsider the common assumption that progress in astronomy always means
"trading up" to bigger apertures and facilities. Instead, the considerations
above argue that we need a balanced set of investments in small- to large-scale
initiatives and team sizes both large and small. Large teams tend to develop
existing ideas, whereas small teams are more likely to fuel the future with
disruptive discoveries. While large facilities are the "value" investments that
are guaranteed to produce discoveries, smaller facilities are the "growth
stocks" that are likely to deliver the biggest science bang per buck, sometimes
with outsize returns. One way to foster the risk taking that fuels discovery is
to increase observing opportunity, i.e., create more observing nights and
facilitate the exploration of science-ready data.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1907.13181v1
Astro2020 White Paper State of the Profession: Intensity Interferometry
Recent advances in telescope design, photodetector efficiency, and high-speed
electronic data recording and synchronization have created the observational
capability to achieve unprecedented angular resolution for several thousand
bright (m< 6) and hot (O/B/A) stars by means of a modern implementation of
Stellar Intensity Interferometry (SII). This technology, when deployed on
future arrays of large diameter optical telescopes, has the ability to image
astrophysical objects with an angular resolution better than 40 {\mu} arc-sec.
This paper describes validation tests of the SII technique in the laboratory
using various optical sensors and correlators, and SII measurements on nearby
stars that have recently been completed as a technology demonstrator. The paper
describes ongoing and future developments that will advance the impact and
instrumental resolution of SII during the upcoming decade.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1908.02356v1
The Mid-InfraRed Exo-planet CLimate Explorer MIRECLE: Exploring the
  Nearest M-Earths Through Ultra-Stable Mid-IR Transit and Phase-Curve
  Spectroscopy
This White Paper presents a mission concept called MIRECLE - the Mid-InfraRed
Exoplanet CLimate Explorer. With a moderately sized aperture of 2 meters, broad
wavelength coverage (4 - 25 um), and next generation instruments, MIRECLE will
be capable of efficiently characterizing a statistically significant sample of
terrestrial planets, many of which will be in their host stars's habitable
zones. Spectroscopic characterization of terrestrial atmospheres will provide
constraints for the distribution of planets with tenuous vs. substantial
atmospheres, on the inner and outer edges of the habitable zone, and climate
models to assess the potential for habitability. For the few brightest targets,
the detection of specific combinations of molecules would provide evidence of
biosignatures. For all other targets, this comprehensive survey would filter
out the airless, desiccated, or lifeless worlds, thus providing a subset of
potentially habitable worlds ready for in-depth atmospheric characterization
using a larger aperture telescope.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1908.02771v1
Characterizing the Distribution of Parameters of Planets Found by Radial
  Velocity is Essential for Understanding Planet Formation and Evolution
Features in the distribution of exoplanet parameters by period demonstrate
that the distribution of planet parameters is rich with information that can
provide essential guidance to understanding planet histories. Structure has
been found in the counts of planet-star "objects" by period, and within these
structures, there are different correlations of eccentricity with planet
number, stellar metallicity, planet count density per log period, stellar
multiplicity, and planet mass. These appear to change with each other, and with
stellar mass, but there are too few planets to easily and reliably study these
important relationships. These relationships are the bulk observables against
which the theory of planet formation and evolution must be tested. The
opportunity to determine the nature of the relationships of the exoplanet
parameters on each other demonstrate the value of finding more planets across
period ranging from days to thousands of days and beyond. We recommend support
for continuing to find more planets, even giant planets, with periods up to
periods of a few thousand days. We also recommend support for the study of the
distribution of the many exoplanet parameters.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1908.04154v1
Subsystem Development for the All-Sky Medium Energy Gamma-ray
  Observatory (AMEGO) prototype
The gamma-ray sky from several hundred keV to $\sim$ a hundred MeV has
remained largely unexplored due to the challenging nature of detecting gamma
rays in this regime. At lower energies, Compton scattering is the dominant
interaction process whereas at higher energies pair production dominates, with
a crossover at about 10 MeV depending on the material. Thus, an instrument
designed to work in this energy range must be optimized for both Compton and
pair-production events. The All-sky Medium Energy Gamma-ray Observatory (AMEGO)
is a NASA Probe-class mission concept being submitted to the Astro2020 review.
The instrument is designed to operate from 200 keV to $>$10 GeV and is made of
four major subsystems: a plastic anti-coincidence detector for rejecting
cosmic-ray events, a silicon tracker for tracking pair-production products and
tracking and measuring the energies of Compton-scattered electrons, a CZT
calorimeter for measuring the energy and location of Compton scattered photons,
and a CsI calorimeter for measuring the energy of the pair-production products
at high energies. A prototype instrument comprising each subsystem is currently
being developed in preparation for a beam test and a balloon flight. In this
contribution we discuss the current status of the prototype subsystems.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1908.05665v1
Stars at High Spatial Resolution
We summarize some of the compelling new scientific opportunities for
understanding stars and stellar systems that can be enabled by sub-milliarcsec
(sub-mas) angular resolution, UV-Optical spectral imaging observations, which
can reveal the details of the many dynamic processes (e.g., evolving magnetic
fields, accretion, convection, shocks, pulsations, winds, and jets) that affect
stellar formation, structure, and evolution. These observations can only be
provided by long-baseline interferometers or sparse aperture telescopes in
space, since the aperture diameters required are in excess of 500 m (a regime
in which monolithic or segmented designs are not and will not be feasible) and
since they require observations at wavelengths (UV) not accessible from the
ground. Such observational capabilities would enable tremendous gains in our
understanding of the individual stars and stellar systems that are the building
blocks of our Universe and which serve as the hosts for life throughout the
Cosmos.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1909.10437v1
The NASA Probe space mission concept, Cosmic Evolution Through UV
  Surveys (CETUS)
The mission concept, Cosmic Origins Through UV Surveys (CETUS) is an all-UV
space mission concept that was selected and funded by NASA for study in 2017.
The main capabilities of CETUS that even Hubble doesn't have are: (1)
wide-field (17.4'x17.4') imaging and spectroscopy of astronomical sources with
<0.5'' resolution; (2) spectral sensitivity to UV radiation at wavelengths as
short as 1000 {\AA}; (3) near-UV multi-object slit spectroscopy; and (4)
rapid-response UV spectroscopy and deep imaging of transients like GW 170817;
and (5) 23 times higher sensitivity to extended sources.
  The main purposes of this CETUS Final Report are to describe the CETUS
scientific program and to demonstrate the maturity of its instrumentation,
which forms the basis of its estimated cost. While there are similarities of
this Final Report to that submitted to NASA in March 2019 by the Goddard Space
Flight Center, there are important differences including the following. *
Science. The science case has been refreshed, deepened, and expanded as a
result of ideas and recommendations expressed in the Astro2020 science white
papers. * Instrumentation. Detailed investigations including a high-level error
budget for focus with implications for thermal management, target acquisition
in the MOS micro-shutter array, contamination control have been carried out. *
Mission Design. The spacecraft and mission operations concepts as developed by
NGIS Gilbert (formerly Orbital ATK) rather than the output of Goddard's Mission
Design Lab have been adopted.. * Technology. Technology maturation plans have
been updated.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1912.07642v1
Building A Field: The Future of Astronomy with Gravitational Waves, A
  State of The Profession Consideration for Astro2020
Harnessing the sheer discovery potential of gravitational wave astronomy will
require bold, deliberate, and sustained efforts to train and develop the
requisite workforce. The next decade requires a strategic plan to build -- from
the ground up -- a robust, open, and well-connected gravitational wave
astronomy community with deep participation from traditional astronomers,
physicists, data scientists, and instrumentalists. This basic infrastructure is
sorely needed as an enabling foundation for research. We outline a set of
recommendations for funding agencies, universities, and professional societies
to help build a thriving, diverse, and inclusive new field.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1902.06147v1
Dark Cosmology: Investigating Dark Matter & Exotic Physics in the Dark
  Ages using the Redshifted 21-cm Global Spectrum
The Dark Ages, probed by the redshifted 21-cm signal, is the ideal epoch for
a new rigorous test of the standard LCDM cosmological model. Divergences from
that model would indicate new physics, such as dark matter decay (heating) or
baryonic cooling beyond that expected from adiabatic expansion of the Universe.
In the early Universe, most of the baryonic matter was in the form of neutral
hydrogen (HI), detectable via its ground state's spin-flip transition. A
measurement of the redshifted 21-cm spectrum maps the history of the HI gas
through the Dark Ages and Cosmic Dawn and up to the Epoch of Reionization
(EoR). The Experiment to Detect the Global EoR Signature (EDGES) recently
reported an absorption trough at 78 MHz (redshift z of 17), similar in
frequency to expectations for Cosmic Dawn, but about 3 times deeper than was
thought possible from standard cosmology and adiabatic cooling of HI.
Interactions between baryons and slightly-charged dark matter particles with
electron-like mass provide a potential explanation of this difference but other
cooling mechanisms are also being investigated to explain these results. The
Cosmic Dawn trough is affected by cosmology and the complex astrophysical
history of the first luminous objects. Another trough is expected during the
Dark Ages, prior to the formation of the first stars and thus determined
entirely by cosmological phenomena (including dark matter). Observations on or
in orbit above the Moon's farside can investigate this pristine epoch (15-40
MHz; z=100-35), which is inaccessible from Earth. A single cross-dipole antenna
or compact array can measure the amplitude of the 21-cm spectrum to the level
required to distinguish (at >5$\sigma$}) the standard cosmological model from
that of additional cooling derived from current EDGES results. This observation
constitutes a powerful, clean probe of exotic physics in the Dark Ages.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1902.06612v1
An Arena for Multi-Messenger Astrophysics: Inspiral and Tidal Disruption
  of White Dwarfs by Massive Black Holes
The tidal disruption of stars by (super-)massive black holes in galactic
nuclei has been discussed in theoretical terms for about 30 years but only in
the past decade have we been able to detect such events in substantial numbers.
Thus, we are now starting to carry out observational tests of models for the
disruption. We are also formulating expectations for the inspiral and
disruption of white dwarfs by intermediate-mass black holes with masses $<
10^5\;{\rm M}_\odot$. Such events are very rich with information and open a new
window to intermediate-mass black holes, thought to live in dwarf galaxies and
star clusters. They can inform us of the demographics of intermediate-mass
black holes, stellar populations and dynamics in their immediate vicinity, and
the physics of accretion of hydrogen-deficient material. The combination of
upcoming transient surveys using ground-based, electromagnetic observatories
and low-frequency gravitational wave observations is ideal for exploiting tidal
disruptions of white dwarfs. The detection rate of gravitational wave signals,
optimistically, may reach a few dozen per year in a volume up to $z\approx
0.1$. Gravitational wave observations are particularly useful because they
yield the masses of the objects involved and allow determination of the spin of
the black hole, affording tests of physical models for black hole formation and
growth. They also give us advance warning of the electromagnetic flares by
weeks or more. The right computing infrastructure for modern models for the
disruption process and event rates will allow us to make the most of the
upcoming observing facilities.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.02584v1
Probing the Cosmological Evolution of Super-massive Black Holes using
  Tidal Disruption Flares
The question of how supermassive black holes (SMBHs) grow over cosmic time is
a major puzzle in high-energy astrophysics. One promising approach to this
problem is via the study of tidal disruption flares (TDFs). These are transient
events resulting from the disruption of stars by quiescent supermassive black
holes at centers of galaxies. A meter-class X-ray observatory with a time
resolution $\sim$ a millisecond and a spectral resolution of a few eV at KeV
energies would be revolutionary as it will facilitate high signal to noise
spectral-timing studies of several cosmological TDFs. It would open a new era
of astrophysics where SMBHs in TDFs at cosmic distances can be studied in
similar detail as current studies of much nearer, stellar-mass black hole
binaries. Using Athena X-ray observatory as an example, we highlight two
specific aspects of spectral-timing analysis of TDFs. (1) Detection of X-ray
quasi-periodic oscillations (QPOs) over a redshift range and using these signal
frequencies to constrain the spin evolution of SMBHs, and (2) Time-resolved
spectroscopy of outflows/winds to probe super-Eddington accretion. SMBH spin
distributions at various redshifts will directly allow us to constrain their
primary mode of growth as higher spins are predicted due to spin-up for
prolonged accretion-mode growth, while lower spins are expected for growth via
mergers due to angular momentum being deposited from random directions. A
meter-class X-ray telescope will also be able to characterize relativistic
TDFs, viz., SwJ1644+57-like events, out to a redshift greater than 8, i.e., it
would facilitate detailed spectral-timing studies of TDFs by the youngest SMBHs
in the Universe.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.02595v1
A High-resolution SZ View of the Warm-Hot Universe
The Sunyaev-Zeldovich (SZ) effect was first predicted nearly five decades
ago, but has only recently become a mature tool for performing high resolution
studies of the warm and hot ionized gas in and between galaxies, groups, and
clusters. Galaxy groups and clusters are powerful probes of cosmology, and they
also serve as hosts for roughly half of the galaxies in the Universe. In this
white paper, we outline the advances in our understanding of thermodynamic and
kinematic properties of the warm-hot universe that can come in the next decade
through spatially and spectrally resolved measurements of the SZ effects. Many
of these advances will be enabled through new/upcoming millimeter/submillimeter
(mm/submm) instrumentation on existing facilities, but truly transformative
advances will require construction of new facilities with larger fields of view
and broad spectral coverage of the mm/submm bands.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.03686v1
The unique potential of extreme mass-ratio inspirals for
  gravitational-wave astronomy
The inspiral of a stellar-mass compact object into a massive ($\sim
10^{4}$-$10^{7} M_{\odot}$) black hole produces an intricate gravitational-wave
signal. Due to the extreme-mass ratios involved, these systems complete $\sim
10^{4}$-$10^{5}$ orbits, most of them in the strong-field region of the massive
black hole, emitting in the frequency range $\sim10^{-4}-1~$Hz. This makes them
prime sources for the space-based observatory LISA (Laser Interferometer Space
Antenna). LISA observations will enable high-precision measurements of the
physical characteristics of these extreme-mass-ratio inspirals (EMRIs):
redshifted masses, massive black hole spin and orbital eccentricity can be
determined with fractional errors $\sim 10^{-4}$-$10^{-6}$, the luminosity
distance with better than $\sim 10\%$ precision, and the sky localization to
within a few square degrees. EMRIs will provide valuable information about
stellar dynamics in galactic nuclei, as well as precise data about massive
black hole populations, including the distribution of masses and spins. They
will enable percent-level measurements of the multipolar structure of massive
black holes, precisely testing the strong-gravity properties of their
spacetimes. EMRIs may also provide cosmographical data regarding the expansion
of the Universe if inferred source locations can be correlated with galaxy
catalogs.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04069v1
What we can learn from multi-band observations of black hole binaries
The LIGO/Virgo gravitational-wave (GW) interferometers have to-date detected
ten merging black hole (BH) binaries, some with masses considerably larger than
had been anticipated. Stellar-mass BH binaries at the high end of the observed
mass range (with "chirp mass" ${\cal M} \gtrsim 25 M_{\odot}$) should be
detectable by a space-based GW observatory years before those binaries become
visible to ground-based GW detectors. This white paper discusses some of the
synergies that result when the same binaries are observed by instruments in
space and on the ground. We consider intermediate-mass black hole binaries
(with total mass $M \sim 10^2 -10^4 M_{\odot}$) as well as stellar-mass black
hole binaries. We illustrate how combining space-based and ground-based data
sets can break degeneracies and thereby improve our understanding of the
binary's physical parameters. While early work focused on how space-based
observatories can forecast precisely when some mergers will be observed on the
ground, the reverse is also important: ground-based detections will allow us to
"dig deeper" into archived, space-based data to confidently identify black hole
inspirals whose signal-to-noise ratios were originally sub-threshold,
increasing the number of binaries observed in both bands by a factor of $\sim 4
- 7$.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04324v1
Populations behind the source-subtracted cosmic infrared background
  anisotropies
While the upcoming telescopes will reveal correspondingly fainter, more
distant galaxies, a question will persist: what more is there that these
telescopes cannot see? One answer is the source-subtracted Cosmic Infrared
Background (CIB). The CIB is comprised of the collective light from all sources
remaining after known, resolved sources are accounted for. Ever-more-sensitive
surveys will identify the brightest of these, allowing them to be removed, and
- like peeling layers off an onion - reveal deeper layers of the CIB. In this
way it is possible to measure the contributions from populations not accessible
to direct telescopic observation. Measurement of fluctuations in the
source-subtracted CIB, i.e., the spatial power spectrum of the CIB after
subtracting resolved sources, provides a robust means of characterizing its
faint, and potentially new, populations. Studies over the past 15 years have
revealed source-subtracted CIB fluctuations on scales out to ~100' which cannot
be explained by extrapolating from known galaxy populations. Moreover, they
appear highly coherent with the unresolved Cosmic X-ray Background, hinting at
a significant population of accreting black holes among the CIB sources.
Characterizing the source-subtracted CIB with high accuracy, and thereby
constraining the nature of the new populations, is feasible with upcoming
instruments and would produce critically important cosmological information in
the next decade. New coextensive deep and wide-area near-infrared, X-ray, and
microwave surveys will bring decisive opportunities to examine, with high
fidelity, the spatial spectrum and origin of the CIB fluctuations and their
cross-correlations with cosmic microwave and X-ray backgrounds, and determine
the formation epochs and the nature of the new sources (stellar nucleosynthetic
or accreting black holes).

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04417v1
Multimessenger science opportunities with mHz gravitational waves
LISA will open the mHz band of gravitational waves (GWs) to the astronomy
community. The strong gravity which powers the variety of GW sources in this
band is also crucial in a number of important astrophysical processes at the
current frontiers of astronomy. These range from the beginning of structure
formation in the early universe, through the origin and cosmic evolution of
massive black holes in concert with their galactic environments, to the
evolution of stellar remnant binaries in the Milky Way and in nearby galaxies.
These processes and their associated populations also drive current and future
observations across the electromagnetic (EM) spectrum. We review opportunities
for science breakthroughs, involving either direct coincident EM+GW
observations, or indirect multimessenger studies. We argue that for the US
community to fully capitalize on the opportunities from the LISA mission, the
US efforts should be accompanied by a coordinated and sustained program of
multi-disciplinary science investment, following the GW data through to its
impact on broad areas of astrophysics. Support for LISA-related multimessenger
observers and theorists should be sized appropriately for a flagship
observatory and may be coordinated through a dedicated mHz GW research center.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04518v1
Unveiling the Phase Transition of the Universe During the Reionization
  Epoch with Lyman-alpha
The epoch of reionization (6 < z < 10) marks the period in our universe when
the first large galaxies grew to fruition, and began to affect the universe
around them. Massive stars, and potentially accreting supermassive black holes,
filled the universe with ionizing radiation, burning off the haze of neutral
gas that had filled the intergalactic medium (IGM) since recombination
(z~1000). The evolution of this process constrains key properties of these
earliest luminous sources, thus observationally constraining reionization is a
key science goal for the next decade. The measurement of Lyman-alpha emission
from photometrically-identified galaxies is a highly constraining probe of
reionization, as a neutral IGM will resonantly scatter these photons, reducing
detectability. While significant work has been done with 8-10m telescopes,
these observations require extremely large telescopes (ELTs); the flux limits
available from today's 10m class telescopes are sufficient for only the
brightest known galaxies (m < 26). Ultra-deep surveys with the Giant Magellan
Telescope (GMT) and Thirty Meter Telescope (TMT) will be capable of detecting
Lyman-alpha emission from galaxies 2-3 magnitudes fainter than today's deepest
surveys. Wide-field fiber spectroscopy on the GMT combined with narrow-field
AO-assisted slit spectroscopy on the TMT will be able to probe the expected
size of ionized bubbles throughout the epoch of reionization, following up
degree scale deep imaging surveys with the Wide Field Infrared Space Telescope.
These data will provide the first resolved Lyman-alpha-based maps of the
ionized intergalactic medium throughout the epoch of reionization, constraining
models of both the temporal and spatial evolution of this phase change.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04524v1
UV Diagnostics of Galaxies from the Peak of Star-Formation to the Epoch
  of Reionization
The rest-frame UV emission from massive stars contains a wealth of
information about the physical nature and conditions of star formation in
galaxies. Using studies of the rest-frame UV, the past decade has witnessed the
beginning of knowledge about the existence and properties of galaxies during
the first few billion years after the Big Bang. This period of history
corresponds to the formation of the first stars, the rapid formation of galaxy
stellar populations, the reionization of the IGM, the production and
dissemination of heavy elements, and the formation of the first black holes.
Massive stars in these galaxies drive all of these events, and their light
dominates the spectral energy distributions of galaxies. As we look to the
2020s, fundamental questions remain about the nature of these stellar
populations and their evolution, from just before the peak of the cosmic star
formation density (z~3), up to the epoch of reionization (z > 6). This next
decade will provide transformative gains both in our ability to identify
star-forming galaxies and accreting supermassive black holes at these early
epochs with imaging surveys in the rest-frame UV (e.g., LSST, WFIRST).
Ground-based, rest-frame UV spectroscopy on >20 m-class telescopes (e.g.,
GMT/TMT) offers the ability to investigate the astrophysical conditions in
galaxies at the earliest cosmic times. This includes studies of the evolution
in galaxy stellar populations, gas ionization (temperature, pressure),
metallicity, and interstellar (and circumgalactic) gas kinematics and covering
fractions. In this white paper, we describe the scientific prospects and the
requirements for research in this area.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04550v1
Unveiling the Galaxy Cluster - Cosmic Web Connection with X-ray
  observations in the Next Decade
In recent years, the outskirts of galaxy clusters have emerged as one of the
new frontiers and unique laboratories for studying the growth of large scale
structure in the universe. Modern cosmological hydrodynamical simulations make
firm and testable predictions of the thermodynamic and chemical evolution of
the X-ray emitting intracluster medium. However, recent X-ray and
Sunyaev-Zeldovich effect observations have revealed enigmatic disagreements
with theoretical predictions, which have motivated deeper investigations of a
plethora of astrophysical processes operating in the virialization region in
the cluster outskirts. Much of the physics of cluster outskirts is
fundamentally different from that of cluster cores, which has been the main
focus of X-ray cluster science over the past several decades. A next-generation
X-ray telescope, equipped with sub-arcsecond spatial resolution over a large
field of view along with a low and stable instrumental background, is required
in order to reveal the full story of the growth of galaxy clusters and the
cosmic web and their applications for cosmology.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04580v1
Mapping Cosmic Dawn and Reionization: Challenges and Synergies
Cosmic dawn and the Epoch of Reionization (EoR) are among the least explored
observational eras in cosmology: a time at which the first galaxies and
supermassive black holes formed and reionized the cold, neutral Universe of the
post-recombination era. With current instruments, only a handful of the
brightest galaxies and quasars from that time are detectable as individual
objects, due to their extreme distances. Fortunately, a multitude of
multi-wavelength intensity mapping measurements, ranging from the redshifted 21
cm background in the radio to the unresolved X-ray background, contain a
plethora of synergistic information about this elusive era. The coming decade
will likely see direct detections of inhomogenous reionization with CMB and 21
cm observations, and a slew of other probes covering overlapping areas and
complementary physical processes will provide crucial additional information
and cross-validation. To maximize scientific discovery and return on
investment, coordinated survey planning and joint data analysis should be a
high priority, closely coupled to computational models and theoretical
predictions.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04582v1
WFIRST: Enhancing Transient Science and Multi-Messenger Astronomy
Astrophysical transients have been observed for millennia and have shaped our
most basic assumptions about the Universe. In the last century, systematic
searches have grown from detecting handfuls of transients per year to over 7000
in 2018 alone. As these searches have matured, we have discovered both large
samples of "normal" classes and new, rare classes. Recently, a transient was
the first object observed in both gravitational waves and light. Ground-based
observatories, including LSST, will discover thousands of transients in the
optical, but these facilities will not provide the high-fidelity near-infrared
(NIR) photometry and high-resolution imaging of a space-based observatory.
WFIRST can fill this gap. With its survey designed to measure the expansion
history of the Universe with Type Ia supernovae, WFIRST will also discover and
monitor thousands of other transients in the NIR, revealing the physics for
these high-energy events. Small-scale GO programs, either as a supplement to
the planned survey or as specific target-of-opportunity observations, would
significantly expand the scope of transient science that can be studied with
WFIRST.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04585v1
Cool, evolved stars: results, challenges, and promises for the next
  decade
Cool, evolved stars are the main source of chemical enrichment of the
interstellar medium (ISM), and understanding their mass loss and structure
offers a unique opportunity to study the cycle of matter in the Universe.
Pulsation, convection, and other dynamic processes in cool evolved stars create
an atmosphere where molecules and dust can form, including those necessary to
the formation of life (e.g.~Carbon-bearing molecules). Understanding the
structure and composition of these stars is thus vital to several aspects of
stellar astrophysics, ranging from ISM studies to modeling young galaxies and
exoplanet research.
  Recent modeling efforts and increasingly precise observations now reveal that
our understanding of cool stars photospheric, chromospheric, and atmospheric
structures is limited by inadequate knowledge of the dynamic and chemical
processes at work. Here we outline promising scientific opportunities for the
next decade.
  We identify and discuss the following main opportunities: (1) identify and
model the physical processes that must be included in current 1D and 3D
atmosphere models of cool, evolved stars; (2) refine our understanding of
photospheric, chromospheric, and outer atmospheric regions of cool evolved
stars, their properties and parameters, through high-resolution spectroscopic
observations, and interferometric observations at high angular resolution; (3)
include the neglected role of chromospheric activity in the mass loss process
of red giant branch and red super giant stars, and understand the role played
by their magnetic fields; (4) identify the important shaping mechanisms for
planetary nebulae and their relation with the parent asymptotic giant branch
stars.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04589v1
Near-Earth Supernova Explosions: Evidence, Implications, and
  Opportunities
There is now solid experimental evidence of at least one supernova explosion
within 100 pc of Earth within the last few million years, from measurements of
the short-lived isotope 60Fe in widespread deep-ocean samples, as well as in
the lunar regolith and cosmic rays. This is the first established example of a
specific dated astrophysical event outside the Solar System having a measurable
impact on the Earth, offering new probes of stellar evolution, nuclear
astrophysics, the astrophysics of the solar neighborhood, cosmic-ray sources
and acceleration, multi-messenger astronomy, and astrobiology.
Interdisciplinary connections reach broadly to include heliophysics, geology,
and evolutionary biology. Objectives for the future include pinning down the
nature and location of the established near-Earth supernova explosions, seeking
evidence for others, and searching for other short-lived isotopes such as 26Al
and 244Pu. The unique information provided by geological and lunar detections
of radioactive 60Fe to assess nearby supernova explosions make now a compelling
time for the astronomy community to advocate for supporting multi-disciplinary,
cross-cutting research programs.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04590v1
Cyberinfrastructure Requirements to Enhance Multi-messenger Astrophysics
The identification of the electromagnetic counterpart of the gravitational
wave event, GW170817, and discovery of neutrinos and gamma-rays from TXS
0506+056 heralded the new era of multi-messenger astrophysics. As the number of
multi-messenger events rapidly grow over the next decade, the
cyberinfrastructure requirements to handle the increase in data rates, data
volume, need for event follow up, and analysis across the different messengers
will also explosively grow. The cyberinfrastructure requirements to enhance
multi-messenger astrophysics will both be a major challenge and opportunity for
astronomers, physicists, computer scientists and cyberinfrastructure
specialists. Here we outline some of these requirements and argue for a
distributed cyberinfrastructure institute for multi-messenger astrophysics to
meet these challenges.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04597v2
Probing Macro-Scale Gas Motions and Turbulence in Diffuse Cosmic Plasmas
Clusters of galaxies, the largest collapsed structures in the Universe, are
located at the intersection of extended filaments of baryons and dark matter.
Cosmological accretion onto clusters through large scale filaments adds
material at cluster outskirts. Kinetic energy in the form of bulk motions and
turbulence due to this accretion provides a form of pressure support against
gravity, supplemental to thermal pressure. Significant amount of non-thermal
pressure support could bias cluster masses derived assuming hydrostatic
equilibrium, the primary proxy for cluster cosmology studies. Sensitive
measurements of Doppler broadening and shift of astrophysical lines, and the
relative fluctuations in thermodynamical quantities (e.g., density, pressure,
and entropy) are primary diagnostic tools. Forthcoming planned and proposed
X-ray (with large etendue, throughput, and high spectral resolution) and SZ
observatories will provide crucial information on the assembly and
virialisation processes of clusters, involving turbulent eddies cascading at
various spatial scales and larger gas bulk motions in their external regions to
the depth or their potential wells.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04607v1
High-Energy Polarimetry - a new window to probe extreme physics in AGN
  jets
The constantly improving sensitivity of ground-based and space-borne
observatories has made possible the detection of high-energy emission (X-rays
and gamma-rays) from several thousands of extragalactic sources. Enormous
progress has been made in measuring the continuum flux enabling us to perform
imaging, spectral and timing studies. An important remaining challenge for
high-energy astronomy is measuring polarization. The capability to measure
polarization is being realized currently at X-ray energies (e.g. with IXPE),
and sensitive gamma-ray telescopes capable of measuring polarization, such as
AMEGO, AdEPT, e-ASTROGAM, etc., are being developed. These future gamma-ray
telescopes will probe the radiation mechanisms and magnetic fields of
relativistic jets from active galactic nuclei at spatial scales much smaller
than the angular resolution achieved with continuum observations of the
instrument. In this white paper, we discuss the scientific potentials of
high-energy polarimetry, especially gamma-ray polarimetry, including the
theoretical implications, and observational technology advances being made. In
particular, we will explore the primary scientific opportunities and wealth of
information expected from synergy of multi-wavelength polarimetry that will be
brought to multi-messenger astronomy.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04742v1
Testing the Nature of Dark Matter with Extremely Large Telescopes
For nearly 40 years, dark matter has been widely assumed to be cold and
collisionless. Cold dark matter models make fundamental predictions for the
behavior of dark matter on small (<10 kpc) scales. These predictions include
cuspy density profiles at the centers of dark matter halos and a halo mass
function that increases as dN/dM ~ M^-1.9 down to very small masses. We suggest
two observational programs relying on extremely large telescopes to critically
test these predictions, and thus shed new light on the nature of dark matter.
(1) Combining adaptive optics-enabled imaging with deep spectroscopy to measure
the three-dimensional motions of stars within a sample of Local Group dwarf
galaxies that are the cleanest dark matter laboratories known in the nearby
universe. From these observations the inner slope of the dark matter density
profile can be determined with an accuracy of 0.20 dex, enabling a central cusp
to be distinguished from a core at 5 sigma significance. (2)
Diffraction-limited AO imaging and integral field spectroscopy of
gravitationally lensed galaxies and quasars to quantify the abundance of dark
substructures in the halos of the lens galaxies and along the line of sight.
Observations of 50 lensed arcs and 50 multiply-imaged quasars will be
sufficient to measure the halo mass function over the range 10^7 < M < 10^10
Msun at cosmological scales, independent of the baryonic and stellar
composition of those structures. These two observational probes provide
complementary information about the small scale structure, with a joint
self-consistent analysis mitigating limitations of either probe. This program
will produce the strongest existing constraints on the properties of dark
matter on small scales, allowing conclusive tests of alternative warm, fuzzy,
and self-interacting dark matter models.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05035v1
Measuring the Hubble Constant Near and Far in the Era of ELT's
Many of the fundamental physical constants in Physics, as a discipline, are
measured to exquisite levels of precision. The fundamental constants that
define Cosmology, however, are largely determined via a handful of independent
techniques that are applied to even fewer datasets. The history of the
measurement of the Hubble Constant (H0), which serves to anchor the expansion
history of the Universe to its current value, is an exemplar of the
difficulties of cosmological measurement; indeed, as we approach the centennial
of its first measurement, the quest for H0 still consumes a great number of
resources. In this white paper, we demonstrate how the approaching era of
Extremely Large Telescopes (ELTs) will transform the astrophysical measure of
H0 from the limited and few into a fundamentally new regime where (i) multiple,
independent techniques are employed with modest use of large aperture
facilities and (ii) 1% or better precision is readily attainable. This quantum
leap in how we approach H0 is due to the unparalleled sensitivity and spatial
resolution of ELT's and the ability to use integral field observations for
simultaneous spectroscopy and photometry, which together permit both familiar
and new techniques to effectively by-pass the conventional 'ladder' framework
to minimize total uncertainty. Three independent techniques are discussed --
(i) standard candles via a two-step distance ladder applied to metal, poor
stellar populations, (ii) standard clocks via gravitational lens cosmography,
and (iii) standard sirens via gravitational wave sources -- each of which can
reach 1% with relatively modest investment from 30-m class facilities.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05077v1
Protoplanetary Disk Science Enabled by Extremely Large Telescopes
The processes that transform gas and dust in circumstellar disks into diverse
exoplanets remain poorly understood. One key pathway is to study exoplanets as
they form in their young ($\sim$few~Myr) natal disks. Extremely Large
Telescopes (ELTs) such as GMT, TMT, or ELT, can be used to establish the
initial chemical conditions, locations, and timescales of planet formation, via
(1)~measuring the physical and chemical conditions in protoplanetary disks
using infrared spectroscopy and (2)~studying planet-disk interactions using
imaging and spectro-astrometry. Our current knowledge is based on a limited
sample of targets, representing the brightest, most extreme cases, and thus
almost certainly represents an incomplete understanding. ELTs will play a
transformational role in this arena, thanks to the high spatial and spectral
resolution data they will deliver. We recommend a key science program to
conduct a volume-limited survey of high-resolution spectroscopy and
high-contrast imaging of the nearest protoplanetary disks that would result in
an unbiased, holistic picture of planet formation as it occurs.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05128v2
The Next Generation of Cosmological Measurements with Type Ia Supernovae
While Type Ia Supernovae (SNe Ia) are one of the most mature cosmological
probes, the next era promises to be extremely exciting in the number of
different ways SNe Ia are used to measure various cosmological parameters. Here
we review the experiments in the 2020s that will yield orders of magnitudes
more SNe Ia, and the new understandings and capabilities to constrain
systematic uncertainties at a level to match these statistics. We then discuss
five different cosmological probes with SNe Ia: the conventional Hubble diagram
for measuring dark energy properties, the distance ladder for measuring the
Hubble constant, peculiar velocities and weak lensing for measuring sigma8 and
strong-lens measurements of H0 and other cosmological parameters. For each of
these probes, we discuss the experiments that will provide the best
measurements and also the SN Ia-related systematics that affect each one.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05161v1
Cosmic voids: a novel probe to shed light on our Universe
Cosmic voids, the less dense patches of the Universe, are promising
laboratories to extract cosmological information. Thanks to their unique low
density character, voids are extremely sensitive to diffuse components such as
neutrinos and dark energy, and represent ideal environments to study
modifications of gravity, where the effects of such modifications are expected
to be more prominent. Robust void-related observables, including for example
redshift-space distortions (RSD) and weak lensing around voids, are a promising
way to chase and test new physics. Cosmological analysis of the large-scale
structure of the Universe predominantly relies on the high density regions.
Current and upcoming surveys are designed to optimize the extraction of
cosmological information from these zones, but leave voids under-exploited. A
dense, large area spectroscopic survey with imaging capabilities is ideal to
exploit the power of voids fully. Besides helping illuminate the nature of dark
energy, modified gravity, and neutrinos, this survey will give access to a
detailed map of under-dense regions, providing an unprecedented opportunity to
observe and study a so far under-explored galaxy population.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05242v1
Variability in the Assembly of Protostellar Systems
Understanding the collapse of clouds and the formation of protoplanetary
disks is essential to understanding the formation of stars and planets. Infall
and accretion, the mass-aggregation processes that occur at envelope and disk
scales, drive the dynamical evolution of protostars. While the observations of
protostars at different stages constrain their evolutionary tracks, the impact
of variability due to accretion bursts on dynamical and chemical evolution of
the source is largely unknown. The lasting effects on protostellar envelopes
and disks are tracked through multi-wavelength and time domain observational
campaigns, requiring deep X-ray, infrared, and radio imaging and spectroscopy,
at a sufficient level of spatial detail to distinguish contributions from the
various substructures (i.e., envelope from disk from star from outflow).
Protostellar models derived from these campaigns will illuminate the initial
chemical state of protoplanetary disks during the epoch of giant planet
formation. Insight from individual star formation in the Milky Way is also
necessary to understand star formation rates in extragalactic sources. This
cannot be achieved with ground-based observatories and is not covered by
currently approved instrumentation. Requirements: High (v < 10 km/s for survey;
v < 1 km/s for followup) spectral resolution capabilities with relatively rapid
response times in the IR (3-500 um), X-ray (0.1-10 keV), and radio (cm) are
critical to follow the course of accretion and outflow during an outburst.
Complementary, AU-scale radio observations are needed to probe the disk
accretion zone, and 10 AU-scale to probe chemical and kinematic structures of
the disk-forming regions, and track changes in the dust, ice, and gas within
protostellar envelopes.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05319v1
Imaging Giant Protoplanets with the ELTs
We have now accumulated a wealth of observations of the planet-formation
environment and of mature planetary systems. These data allow us to test and
refine theories of gas-giant planet formation by placing constraints on the
conditions and timescale of this process. Yet a number of fundamental questions
remain unanswered about how protoplanets accumulate material, their
photospheric properties and compositions, and how they interact with
protoplanetary disks. While we have begun to detect protoplanet candidates
during the last several years, we are presently only sensitive to the widest
separation, highest mass / accretion rate cases. Current observing facilities
lack the angular resolution and inner working angle to probe the few-AU orbital
separations where giant planet formation is thought to be most efficient. They
also lack the contrast to detect accretion rates that would form lower mass gas
giants and ice giants. Instruments and telescopes coming online over the next
decade will provide high contrast in the inner giant-planet-forming regions
around young stars, allowing us to build a protoplanet census and to
characterize planet formation in detail for the first time.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05468v1
The Critical, Strategic Importance of Adaptive Optics-Assisted
  Ground-Based Telescopes for the Success of Future NASA Exoplanet Direct
  Imaging Missions
Ground-based telescopes coupled with adaptive optics (AO) have been playing a
leading role in exoplanet direct imaging science and technological development
for the past two decades and will continue to have an indispensable role for
the next decade and beyond. Over the next decade, extreme AO systems on 8-10m
telescopes will 1) mitigate risk for WFIRST-CGI by identifying numerous planets
the mission can spectrally characterize, 2) validate performance requirements
and motivate improvements to atmosphere models needed to unambiguously
characterize solar system-analogues from space, and 3) mature novel
technological innovations useful for space. Extremely Large Telescopes can
deliver the first thermal infrared (10 $\mu m$) images of rocky planets around
Sun-like stars and identify biomarkers. These data provide a future NASA direct
imaging flagship mission (i.e. HabEx, LUVOIR) with numerous exo-Earth
candidates and critical ancillary information to help clarify whether these
planets are habitable.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05569v1
Positron Annihilation in the Galaxy
The 511 keV line from positron annihilation in the Galaxy was the first
$\gamma$-ray line detected to originate from outside our solar system. Going
into the fifth decade since the discovery, the source of positrons is still
unconfirmed and remains one of the enduring mysteries in $\gamma$-ray
astronomy. With a large flux of $\sim$10$^{-3}$ $\gamma$/cm$^{2}$/s, after 15
years in operation INTEGRAL/SPI has detected the 511 keV line at $>50\sigma$
and has performed high-resolution spectral studies which conclude that Galactic
positrons predominantly annihilate at low energies in warm phases of the
interstellar medium. The results from imaging are less certain, but show a
spatial distribution with a strong concentration in the center of the Galaxy.
The observed emission from the Galactic disk has low surface brightness and the
scale height is poorly constrained, therefore, the shear number of annihilating
positrons in our Galaxy is still not well know. Positrons produced in
$\beta^+$-decay of nucleosynthesis products, such as $^{26}$Al, can account for
some of the annihilation emission in the disk, but the observed spatial
distribution, in particular the excess in the Galactic bulge, remains difficult
to explain. Additionally, one of the largest uncertainties in these studies is
the unknown distance that positrons propagate before annihilation. In this
paper, we will summarize the current knowledge base of Galactic positrons, and
discuss how next-generation instruments could finally provide the answers.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05634v1
Taking Census of Massive, Star-Forming Galaxies formed <1 Gyr After the
  Big Bang
Two decades of effort have been poured into both single-dish and
interferometric millimeter-wave surveys of the sky to infer the volume density
of dusty star-forming galaxies (DSFGs, with SFR>100M$_\odot$ yr$^{-1}$) over
cosmic time. Though obscured galaxies dominate cosmic star-formation near its
peak at $z\sim2$, the contribution of such heavily obscured galaxies to cosmic
star-formation is unknown beyond $z\sim2.5$ in contrast to the well-studied
population of Lyman-break galaxies (LBGs) studied through deep, space- and
ground-based pencil beam surveys in the near-infrared. Unlocking the volume
density of DSFGs beyond $z>3$, particularly within the first 1 Gyr after the
Big Bang is critical to resolving key open questions about early Universe
galaxy formation: (1) What is the integrated star-formation rate density of the
Universe in the first few Gyr and how is it distributed among low-mass galaxies
(e.g. Lyman-break galaxies) and high-mass galaxies (e.g. DSFGs and quasar host
galaxies)? (2) How and where do the first massive galaxies assemble? (3) What
can the most extreme DSFGs teach us about the mechanisms of dust production
(e.g. supernovae, AGB stars, grain growth in the ISM) <1 Gyr after the Big
Bang? We summarize the types of observations needed in the next decade to
address these questions.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05666v1
Extremely metal-poor stars: the need for UV spectra
Our current understanding of the chemical evolution of the Universe is that a
first generation of stars was formed out of primordial material, completely
devoid of metals (Pop III stars). This first population of stars comprised
massive stars that exploded as supernovae disseminating the metals they
synthesised in the interstellar medium. These massive stars are long dead and
cannot be observed in the local Universe. Among very metal poor stars
(metallicity below -2.0) we expect to find the direct descendants of these
pristine metal factories. The chemical composition of these stars provides us
indirect information on the nature of the Pop III stars, their masses,
luminosities and mode of explosion. The constraints are stronger if the
chemical inventory is more complete, more chemical elements and isotopic ratios
are measured for each star. Unfortunately the lower the metallicity of the
star, the weaker the lines. Access to the space UV spectral range gives us
crucial supplementary information. To start with, it allows access to some very
strong Fe lines that may allow to measure the abundance of this element in
stars for which this was not possible from the ground-accessible UV spectra.
The number of such stars is steadily increasing. Next the UV range allows us to
measure elements that cannot be measured from ground-based spectra like P, Ge,
As, Se, Cd, Te, Lu, Os, Ir, Pt, Au. In addition it is fundamental for measuring
other elements that can be accessed from earth, but with great difficulty, like
C, S, Cu, Zn, Pb. The Hubble space telescope, with its limited collecting power
made this possible only for very few stars. Old metal poor stars are cool, of
spectral types F,G,K, and their UV flux is low. The availability of a UV high
resolution spectrograph fed by a large area space telescope will open an
unprecedented window on the early evolution of our Galaxy.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05729v1
Opportunities for Astrophysical Science from the Inner and Outer Solar
  System
Astrophysical measurements away from the 1 AU orbit of Earth can enable
several astrophysical science cases that are challenging or impossible to
perform from Earthbound platforms, including: building a detailed understanding
of the extragalactic background light throughout the electromagnetic spectrum;
measurements of the properties of dust and ice in the inner and outer solar
system; determinations of the mass of planets and stellar remnants far from
luminous stars using gravitational microlensing; and stable time-domain
astronomy. Though potentially transformative for astrophysics, opportunities to
fly instrumentation capable of these measurements are rare, and a mission to
the distant solar system that includes instrumentation expressly designed to
perform astrophysical science, or even one primarily for a different purpose
but capable of precise astronomical investigation, has not yet been flown. In
this White Paper, we describe the science motivations for this kind of
measurement, and advocate for future flight opportunities that permit
intersectional collaboration and cooperation to make these science
investigations a reality.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.06034v1
Illuminating the dark universe with a very high density galaxy redshift
  survey over a wide area
The nature of dark energy remains a profound mystery 20 years after the
discovery of cosmic acceleration. A very high number density galaxy redshift
survey over a wide area (HD GRS Wide) spanning the redshift range of 0.5<z<4
using the same tracer, carried out using massively parallel wide field
multi-object slit spectroscopy from space, will provide definitive dark energy
measurements with minimal observational systematics by design. The HD GRS Wide
will illuminate the nature of dark energy, and lead to revolutionary advances
in particle physics and cosmology. It will also trace the cosmic web of dark
matter and provide key insight into large-scale structure in the Universe. The
required observational facility can be established as part of the probe
portfolio by NASA within the next decade.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.06197v2
Astro2020 Science White Paper: Synergies Between Galaxy Surveys and
  Reionization Measurements
The early phases of galaxy formation constitute one of the most exciting
frontiers in astrophysics. It is during this era that the first luminous
sources reionize the intergalactic medium - the moment when structure formation
affects every baryon in the Universe. Here we argue that we will obtain a
complete picture of this era by combining observations of galaxies with direct
measurements of the reionization process: the former will provide a detailed
understanding of bright sources, while the latter will constrain the
(substantial) faint source population. We further describe how optimizing the
comparison of these two measurements requires near-infrared galaxy surveys
covering large volumes and retaining redshift information and also improvements
in 21-cm analysis, moving those experiments into the imaging regime.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.06201v1
Ultraviolet Perspectives on Diffuse Gas in the Largest Cosmic Structures
The past decade has seen an explosion of discoveries and new insights into
the diffuse gas within galaxies, galaxy clusters, and the filaments composing
the Cosmic Web. A new decade will bring fresh opportunities to further this
progress towards developing a comprehensive view of the composition, thermal
state, and physical processes of diffuse gas in the Universe. Ultraviolet (UV)
spectroscopy, probing diffuse 10^4-10^6 K gas at high spectral resolution, is
uniquely poised to (1) witness environmental galaxy quenching processes in
action, such as strangulation and tidal- and ram-pressure stripping, (2)
directly account for the baryon content of galaxy clusters in the cold-warm
(T<10^6 K) gas, (3) determine the phase structure and kinematics of gas
participating in the equilibrium-regulating exchange of energy at the cores of
galaxy clusters, and (4) map cold streams and filaments of the Cosmic Web that
feed galaxies and clusters. With a substantial UV undertaking beyond the Hubble
Space Telescope, all of the above would be achievable over the entire epoch of
galaxy cluster formation. Such capabilities, coupled with already-planned
advancements at other wavelengths, will transform extragalactic astronomy by
revealing the dominant formation and growth mechanisms of gaseous halos over
the mass spectrum, settling the debate between early- and late-time metal
enrichment scenarios, and revealing how the ecosystems in which galaxies reside
ultimately facilitate their demise.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.06204v2
Astro2020 Science White Paper: Insights Into the Epoch of Reionization
  with the Highly-Redshifted 21-cm Line
The epoch of reionization, when photons from early galaxies ionized the
intergalactic medium about a billion years after the Big Bang, is the last
major phase transition in the Universe's history. Measuring the characteristics
of the transition is important for understanding early galaxies and the cosmic
web and for modeling dwarf galaxies in the later Universe. But such
measurements require probes of the intergalactic medium itself. Here we
describe how the 21-cm line of neutral hydrogen provides a powerful probe of
the reionization process and therefore important constraints on both the
galaxies and intergalactic absorbers at that time. While existing experiments
will make precise statistical measurements over the next decade, we argue that
improved 21-cm analysis techniques - allowing imaging of the neutral gas itself
- as well as improved theoretical models, are crucial for testing our
understanding of this important era.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.06299v1
The Demographics and Atmospheres of Giant Planets with the ELTs
Gas giants are the most readily detectable exoplanets but fundamental
questions about their system architectures, formation, migration, and
atmospheres have been unanswerable with the current generation of ground- and
space-based facilities. The dominant techniques to detect and characterize
giant planets $-$ radial velocities, transits, direct imaging, microlensing,
and astrometry $-$ are each isolated to a limited range of planet masses,
separations, ages, and temperatures. These windows into the arrangement and
physical properties of giant planets have spawned new questions about the
timescale and location of their assembly; the distributions of planet mass and
orbital separation at young and old ages; the composition and structure of
their atmospheres; and their orbital and rotational angular momentum
architectures. The ELTs will address these questions by building bridges
between these islands of mass, orbital distance, and age. The angular
resolution, collecting area, all-sky coverage, and novel instrumentation suite
of these facilities are needed to provide a complete map of the orbits and
atmospheric evolution of gas giant planets (0.3$-$10 $M_\mathrm{Jup}$) across
space (0.1$-$100 AU) and time (1 Myr to 10 Gyr). This white paper highlights
the scientific potential of the GMT and TMT to address these outstanding
questions, with a particular focus on the role of direct imaging and
spectroscopy of large samples of giant planets that will soon be made available
with $Gaia$.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.06748v1
The physics and astrophysics of X-ray outflows from Active Galactic
  Nuclei
The highly energetic outflows from Active Galactic Nuclei detected in X-rays
are one of the most powerful mechanisms by which the central supermassive black
hole (SMBH) interacts with the host galaxy. The last two decades of high
resolution X-ray spectroscopy with XMM and Chandra have improved our
understanding of the nature of these outflowing ionized absorbers and we are
now poised to take the next giant leap with higher spectral resolution and
higher throughput observatories to understand the physics and impact of these
outflows on the host galaxy gas. The future studies on X-ray outflows not only
have the potential to unravel some of the currently outstanding puzzles in
astronomy, such as the physical basis behind the MBH$-\sigma$ relation, the
cooling flow problem in intra-cluster medium (ICM), and the evolution of the
quasar luminosity function across cosmic timescales, but also provide rare
insights into the dynamics and nature of matter in the immediate vicinity of
the SMBH. Higher spectral resolution ($\le 0.5$ eV at $1$ keV) observations
will be required to identify individual absorption lines and study the
asymmetries and shifts in the line profiles revealing important information
about outflow structures and their impact. Higher effective area ($\ge 1000 \rm
\,cm^{2}$) will be required to study the outflows in distant quasars,
particularly at the quasar peak era (redshift $1\le z\le 3$) when the AGN
population was the brightest. Thus, it is imperative that we develop next
generation X-ray telescopes with high spectral resolution and high throughput
for unveiling the properties and impact of highly energetic X-ray outflows. A
simultaneous high resolution UV + X-ray mission will encompass the crucial AGN
ionizing continuum, and also characterize the simultaneous detections of UV and
X-ray outflows, which map different spatial scales along the line of sight.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.06844v1
Breaking the limit: Super-Eddington accretion onto black holes and
  neutron stars
With the recent discoveries of massive and highly luminous quasars at high
redshifts ($z\sim7$; e.g. Mortlock et al. 2011), the question of how black
holes (BHs) grow in the early Universe has been cast in a new light. In order
to grow BHs with $M_{\rm BH} > 10^9$ M$_{\odot}$ by less than a billion years
after the Big Bang, mass accretion onto the low-mass seed BHs needs to have
been very rapid (Volonteri & Rees, 2005). Indeed, for any stellar remnant seed,
the rate required would need to exceed the Eddington limit. This is the point
at which the outward force produced by radiation pressure is equal to the
gravitational attraction experienced by the in-falling matter. In principle,
this implies that there is a maximum luminosity an object of mass $M$ can emit;
assuming spherical accretion and that the opacity is dominated by Thompson
scattering, this Eddington luminosity is $L_{\rm{E}} = 1.38 \times 10^{38}
(M/M_{\odot})$ erg s$^{-1}$. In reality, it is known that this limit can be
violated, due to non-spherical geometry or various kinds of instabilities.
Nevertheless, the Eddington limit remains an important reference point, and
many of the details of how accretion proceeds above this limit remain unclear.
Understanding how this so-called super-Eddington accretion occurs is of clear
cosmological importance, since it potentially governs the growth of the first
supermassive black holes (SMBHs) and the impact this growth would have had on
their host galaxies (`feedback') and the epoch of reionization, as well as
improving our understanding of accretion physics more generally.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.07409v1
Observing Galaxy Evolution in the Context of Large-Scale Structure
Galaxies form and evolve in the context of their local and large-scale
environments. Their baryonic content that we observe with imaging and
spectroscopy is intimately connected to the properties of their dark matter
halos, and to their location in the "cosmic web" of large-scale structure. Very
large spectroscopic surveys of the local universe (e.g., SDSS and GAMA) measure
galaxy positions (location within large-scale structure), statistical
clustering (a direct constraint on dark matter halo masses), and spectral
features (measuring physical conditions of the gas and stars within the
galaxies, as well as internal velocities). Deep surveys with the James Webb
Space Telescope (JWST) will revolutionize spectroscopic measurements of
redshifts and spectral properties for galaxies out to the epoch of
reionization, but with numerical statistics and over cosmic volumes that are
too small to map large-scale structure and to constrain halo properties via
clustering. Here, we consider advances in understanding galaxy evolution that
would be enabled by very large spectroscopic surveys at high redshifts: very
large numbers of galaxies (outstanding statistics) over large co-moving volumes
(large-scale structure on all scales) over broad redshift ranges (evolution
over most of cosmic history). The required observational facility can be
established as part of the probe portfolio by NASA within the next decade.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.07556v1
New Frontiers for Terrestrial-sized to Neptune-sized Exoplanets In the
  Era of Extremely Large Telescopes
Surveys reveal that terrestrial- to Neptune-sized planets (1 $< R <$ 4
R$_{\rm{Earth}}$) are the most common type of planets in our galaxy. Detecting
and characterizing such small planets around nearby stars holds the key to
understanding the diversity of exoplanets and will ultimately address the
ubiquitousness of life in the universe. The following fundamental questions
will drive research in the next decade and beyond: (1) how common are
terrestrial to Neptune-sized planets within a few AU of their host star, as a
function of stellar mass? (2) How does planet composition depend on planet
mass, orbital radius, and host star properties? (3) What are the energy
budgets, atmospheric dynamics, and climates of the nearest worlds? Addressing
these questions requires: a) diffraction-limited spatial resolution; b)
stability and achievable contrast delivered by adaptive optics; and c) the
light-gathering power of extremely large telescopes (ELTs), as well as
multi-wavelength observations and all-sky coverage enabled by a comprehensive
US ELT Program. Here we provide an overview of the challenge, and promise of
success, in detecting and comprehensively characterizing small worlds around
the very nearest stars to the Sun with ELTs. This white paper extends and
complements the material presented in the findings and recommendations
published in the National Academy reports on Exoplanet Science Strategy and
Astrobiology Strategy for the Search for Life in the Universe.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.07644v1
Multi-Messenger Astrophysics with Pulsar Timing Arrays
Pulsar timing arrays (PTAs) are on the verge of detecting low-frequency
gravitational waves (GWs) from supermassive black hole binaries (SMBHBs). With
continued observations of a large sample of millisecond pulsars, PTAs will
reach this major milestone within the next decade. Already, SMBHB candidates
are being identified by electromagnetic surveys in ever-increasing numbers;
upcoming surveys will enhance our ability to detect and verify candidates, and
will be instrumental in identifying the host galaxies of GW sources.
Multi-messenger (GW and electromagnetic) observations of SMBHBs will
revolutionize our understanding of the co-evolution of SMBHs with their host
galaxies, the dynamical interactions between binaries and their galactic
environments, and the fundamental physics of accretion. Multi-messenger
observations can also make SMBHBs 'standard sirens' for cosmological distance
measurements out to $z\simeq0.5$. LIGO has already ushered in breakthrough
insights in our knowledge of black holes. The multi-messenger detection of
SMBHBs with PTAs will be a breakthrough in the years $2020-2030$ and beyond,
and prepare us for LISA to help complete our views of black hole demographics
and evolution at higher redshifts.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.07647v1
Pulsars in a Bubble? Following Electron Diffusion in the Galaxy with TeV
  Gamma Rays
TeV Halos, extended regions of TeV gamma-ray emission around middle-aged
pulsars, have recently been established as a new source class in gamma-ray
astronomy. These halos have been attributed to relativistic electrons and
positrons that have left the acceleration region close to the pulsar and are
diffusing in the surrounding medium.
  Measuring the morphology of TeV Halos enables for the first time a direct
measurement of the electron diffusion on scales of tens of parsecs. There are
hints that the presence of relativistic particles affects the diffusion rate in
the pulsars' surroundings. Understanding electron diffusion is necessary to
constrain the origins of the apparent `excess' of cosmic-ray positrons at tens
of GeV. TeV Halos can also be used to find mis-aligned pulsars, as well as
study certain properties of the Galaxy's pulsar population.
  Future VHE gamma-ray instruments will detect more of those TeV Halos and
determine how much pulsars contribute to the observed cosmic-ray electron and
positron fluxes, and how they affect diffusion in their environments.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.07835v1
GRBs as Probes of the Early Universe with TSO
Long gamma-ray bursts (GRBs) are the most luminous known electromagnetic
radiation sources in the Universe for the 3 to 300 sec of their prompt flashes
(isotropic X/ gamma-ray luminosities up to 10^53 ergs/sec). Their afterglows
have first day rest-frame UV/optical absolute magnitudes AB = -30 to -23. This
luminous continuum nUV-nIR back-light provides the ultimate probe of the SFR(z)
back to the first Pop III to II.5 stars, expected to be massive and GRB
progenitors. GRB afterglow spectra in the first 1 to 3 hours will directly
measure their host galaxy ionization fraction x_i vs. z in the Epoch of
Reionization (EOR), tracing the growth of structure. Only 28% of Swift GRBs
have measured redshifts due to limited followup at R, J >21. Some ~25% of GRBs
are optically dark due to dust absorption in their host galaxies, but those
with low NH in their X-ray spectra are likely at z >7. Current 8-10m telescopes
and coming ELTs cannot pursue optically dark GRBs promptly, nor can JWST or
WFIRST slew within 0.5 to 1 days of a GRB. The Time-domain Spectroscopic
Observatory (TSO) is a proposed Probe-class 1.3m telescope at L2, with imaging
and spectroscopy (R = 200, 1800) in 4 bands (0.3 to 5um) and rapid slew
capability to 90% of sky. TSO would finally utilize z > 6 to 12 GRBs as the
most direct probe of the SFR(z), EOR(z), and possibly the first direct
detection of the core collapse of the very first (Pop III) stars.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.08116v1
Low Mass Stars as Tracers of Star Formation in Diverse Environments
Background: low-mass stars are the dominant product of the star formation
process, and they trace star formation over the full range of environments,
from isolated globules to clusters in the central molecular zone. In the past
two decades, our understanding of the spatial distribution and properties of
young low-mass stars and protostars has been revolutionized by sensitive
space-based observations at X-ray and IR wavelengths. By surveying spatial
scales from clusters to molecular clouds, these data provide robust
measurements of key star formation properties.
  Goal: with their large numbers and their presence in diverse environments,
censuses of low mass stars and protostars can be used to measure the dependence
of star formation on environmental properties, such as the density and
temperature of the natal gas, strengths of the magnetic and radiation fields,
and the density of stars. Here we summarize how such censuses can answer three
basic questions: i.) how is the star formation rate influenced by environment,
ii.) does the IMF vary with environment, and iii.) how does the environment
shape the formation of bound clusters? Answering these questions is an
important step toward understanding star and cluster formation across the
extreme range of environments found in the Universe.
  Requirements: sensitivity and angular resolution improvements will allow us
to study the full range of environments found in the Milky Way. High spatial
dynamic range (< 1arcsec to > 1degree scales) imaging with space-based
telescopes at X-ray, mid-IR, and far-IR and ground-based facilities at near-IR
and sub-mm wavelengths are needed to identify and characterize young stars.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.08187v1
Wide-Orbit Exoplanet Demographics
The Kepler, K2 and TESS transit surveys are revolutionizing our understanding
of planets orbiting close to their host stars and our understanding of
exoplanet systems in general, but there remains a gap in our understanding of
wide-orbit planets. This gap in our understanding must be filled if we are to
understand planet formation and how it affects exoplanet habitability. We
summarize current and planned exoplanet detection programs using a variety of
methods: microlensing (including WFIRST), radial velocities, Gaia astrometry,
and direct imaging. Finally, we discuss the prospects for joint analyses using
results from multiple methods and obstacles that could hinder such analyses.
  We endorse the findings and recommendations published in the 2018 National
Academy report on Exoplanet Science Strategy. This white paper extends and
complements the material presented therein.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.08213v1
Unlocking the Capabilities of Future High-Resolution X-ray Spectroscopy
  Missions Through Laboratory Astrophysics
Thanks to high-resolution and non-dispersive spectrometers onboard future
X-ray missions such as XRISM and Athena, we are finally poised to answer
important questions about the formation and evolution of galaxies and
large-scale structure. However, we currently lack an adequate understanding of
many atomic processes behind the spectral features we will soon observe. Large
error bars on parameters as critical as transition energies and atomic cross
sections can lead to unacceptable uncertainties in the calculations of e.g.,
elemental abundance, velocity, and temperature. Unless we address these issues,
we risk limiting the full scientific potential of these missions. Laboratory
astrophysics, which comprises theoretical and experimental studies of the
underlying physics behind observable astrophysical processes, is therefore
central to the success of these missions.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.08777v1
The Disk Gas Mass and the Far-IR Revolution
The gaseous mass of protoplanetary disks is a fundamental quantity in planet
formation. The presence of gas is necessary to assemble planetesimals, it
determines timescales of giant planet birth, and it is an unknown factor for a
wide range of properties of planet formation, from chemical abundances (X/H) to
the mass efficiency of planet formation. The gas mass obtained from traditional
tracers, such as dust thermal continuum and CO isotopologues, are now known to
have significant (1 - 2 orders of magnitude) discrepancies. Emission from the
isotopologue of H2, hydrogen deuteride (HD), offers an alternative measurement
of the disk gas mass.
  Of all of the regions of the spectrum, the far-infrared stands out in that
orders of magnitude gains in sensitivity can be gleaned by cooling a large
aperture telescope to 8 K. Such a facility can open up a vast new area of the
spectrum to exploration. One of the primary benefits of this far-infrared
revolution would be the ability to survey hundreds of planet-forming disks in
HD emission to derive their gaseous masses. For the first time, we will have
statistics on the gas mass as a function of evolution, tracing birth to
dispersal as a function of stellar spectral type. These measurements have broad
implications for our understanding of the time scale during which gas is
available to form giant planets, the dynamical evolution of the seeds of
terrestrial worlds, and the resulting chemical composition of pre-planetary
embryos carrying the elements needed for life. Measurements of the ground-state
line of HD requires a space-based observatory operating in the far-infrared at
112 microns.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.09323v1
Wide-field Multi-object Spectroscopy to Enhance Dark Energy Science from
  LSST
LSST will open new vistas for cosmology in the next decade, but it cannot
reach its full potential without data from other telescopes. Cosmological
constraints can be greatly enhanced using wide-field ($>20$ deg$^2$ total
survey area), highly-multiplexed optical and near-infrared multi-object
spectroscopy (MOS) on 4-15m telescopes. This could come in the form of
suitably-designed large surveys and/or community access to add new targets to
existing projects. First, photometric redshifts can be calibrated with high
precision using cross-correlations of photometric samples against spectroscopic
samples at $0 < z < 3$ that span thousands of sq. deg. Cross-correlations of
faint LSST objects and lensing maps with these spectroscopic samples can also
improve weak lensing cosmology by constraining intrinsic alignment systematics,
and will also provide new tests of modified gravity theories. Large samples of
LSST strong lens systems and supernovae can be studied most efficiently by
piggybacking on spectroscopic surveys covering as much of the LSST
extragalactic footprint as possible (up to $\sim20,000$ square degrees).
Finally, redshifts can be measured efficiently for a high fraction of the
supernovae in the LSST Deep Drilling Fields (DDFs) by targeting their hosts
with wide-field spectrographs. Targeting distant galaxies, supernovae, and
strong lens systems over wide areas in extended surveys with (e.g.) DESI or MSE
in the northern portion of the LSST footprint or 4MOST in the south could
realize many of these gains; DESI, 4MOST, Subaru/PFS, or MSE would all be
well-suited for DDF surveys. The most efficient solution would be a new
wide-field, highly-multiplexed spectroscopic instrument in the southern
hemisphere with $>6$m aperture. In two companion white papers we present gains
from deep, small-area MOS and from single-target imaging and spectroscopy.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.09324v1
Single-object Imaging and Spectroscopy to Enhance Dark Energy Science
  from LSST
Single-object imaging and spectroscopy on telescopes with apertures ranging
from ~4 m to 40 m have the potential to greatly enhance the cosmological
constraints that can be obtained from LSST. Two major cosmological probes will
benefit greatly from LSST follow-up: accurate spectrophotometry for nearby and
distant Type Ia supernovae will expand the cosmological distance lever arm by
unlocking the constraining power of high-z supernovae; and cosmology with time
delays of strongly-lensed supernovae and quasars will require additional
high-cadence imaging to supplement LSST, adaptive optics imaging or
spectroscopy for accurate lens and source positions, and IFU or slit
spectroscopy to measure detailed properties of lens systems. We highlight the
scientific impact of these two science drivers, and discuss how additional
resources will benefit them. For both science cases, LSST will deliver a large
sample of objects over both the wide and deep fields in the LSST survey, but
additional data to characterize both individual systems and overall systematics
will be key to ensuring robust cosmological inference to high redshifts.
Community access to large amounts of natural-seeing imaging on ~2-4 m
telescopes, adaptive optics imaging and spectroscopy on 8-40 m telescopes, and
high-throughput single-target spectroscopy on 4-40 m telescopes will be
necessary for LSST time domain cosmology to reach its full potential. In two
companion white papers we present the additional gains for LSST cosmology that
will come from deep and from wide-field multi-object spectroscopy.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.09325v1
Deep Multi-object Spectroscopy to Enhance Dark Energy Science from LSST
Community access to deep (i ~ 25), highly-multiplexed optical and
near-infrared multi-object spectroscopy (MOS) on 8-40m telescopes would greatly
improve measurements of cosmological parameters from LSST. The largest gain
would come from improvements to LSST photometric redshifts, which are employed
directly or indirectly for every major LSST cosmological probe; deep
spectroscopic datasets will enable reduced uncertainties in the redshifts of
individual objects via optimized training. Such spectroscopy will also
determine the relationship of galaxy SEDs to their environments, key
observables for studies of galaxy evolution. The resulting data will also
constrain the impact of blending on photo-z's. Focused spectroscopic campaigns
can also improve weak lensing cosmology by constraining the intrinsic
alignments between the orientations of galaxies. Galaxy cluster studies can be
enhanced by measuring motions of galaxies in and around clusters and by testing
photo-z performance in regions of high density. Photometric redshift and
intrinsic alignment studies are best-suited to instruments on large-aperture
telescopes with wider fields of view (e.g., Subaru/PFS, MSE, or GMT/MANIFEST)
but cluster investigations can be pursued with smaller-field instruments (e.g.,
Gemini/GMOS, Keck/DEIMOS, or TMT/WFOS), so deep MOS work can be distributed
amongst a variety of telescopes. However, community access to large amounts of
nights for surveys will still be needed to accomplish this work. In two
companion white papers we present gains from shallower, wide-area MOS and from
single-target imaging and spectroscopy.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.09430v1
Mapping Gas Phase Abundances and Enrichment Patterns Across Galaxy Disks
The distribution of gas-phase abundances in galaxy disks encodes the history
of nucleosynthesis and transport through the interstellar medium (ISM) over
cosmic time. Multi-object and high resolution integral-field spectroscopy have
started to measure these distributions across hundreds of HII regions
individually resolved at $\lesssim 100$ pc scales in a handful of objects, but
in the coming decade these studies will expand to larger samples of galaxies.
This will allow us to understand the role of feedback and turbulence in driving
the mixing and diffusion of metals in the ISM, and statistically assess the
role of galaxy environment and disk dynamics in modifying how mixing proceeds.
Detailed searches for over- and under-enriched regions can address to what
extent star formation is triggered by previous generations of star formation
and by pristine and recycled gas flows. Local galaxies, for which these
detailed measurements will be possible within the next decade, will inform the
interpretation of integrated measurements at high-z, where very different
dynamical gas-rich environments are found in early disk galaxies. Currently,
progress in the field is severely hampered by the 0.2-0.3 dex level systematic
uncertainties plaguing nebular abundance diagnostics. Improving our detailed
understanding of ionized nebulae at $<$20 pc scales will help us find a
solution to this problem, which will prove key to the study of metal enrichment
and mixing across the galaxy population in the next decade.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.09686v1
Supermassive Black Hole Feedback
Understanding the processes that drive galaxy formation and shape the
observed properties of galaxies is one of the most interesting and challenging
frontier problems of modern astrophysics. We now know that the evolution of
galaxies is critically shaped by the energy injection from accreting
supermassive black holes (SMBHs). However, it is unclear how exactly the
physics of this feedback process affects galaxy formation and evolution. In
particular, a major challenge is unraveling how the energy released near the
SMBHs is distributed over nine orders of magnitude in distance throughout
galaxies and their immediate environments. The best place to study the impact
of SMBH feedback is in the hot atmospheres of massive galaxies, groups, and
galaxy clusters, which host the most massive black holes in the Universe, and
where we can directly image the impact of black holes on their surroundings. We
identify critical questions and potential measurements that will likely
transform our understanding of the physics of SMBH feedback and how it shapes
galaxies, through detailed measurements of (i) the thermodynamic and velocity
fluctuations in the intracluster medium (ICM) as well as (ii) the composition
of the bubbles inflated by SMBHs in the centers of galaxy clusters, and their
influence on the cluster gas and galaxy growth, using the next generation of
high spectral and spatial resolution X-ray and microwave telescopes.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.11091v1
Cosmic evolution of supermassive black holes: A view into the next two
  decades
The discoveries made over the past 20 years by Chandra and XMM-Newton surveys
in conjunction with multiwavelength imaging and spectroscopic data available in
the same fields have significantly changed the view of the supermassive black
hole (SMBH) and galaxy connection. These discoveries have opened up several
exciting questions that are beyond the capabilities of current X-ray telescopes
and will need to be addressed by observatories in the next two decades. As new
observatories peer into the early Universe, we will begin to understand the
physics and demographics of SMBH infancy (at $z>6$) and investigate the
influence of their accretion on the formation of the first galaxies ($\S$ 2.1).
We will also be able to understand the accretion and evolution over the cosmic
history (at $z\sim$1-6) of the full population of black holes in galaxies,
including low accretion rate, heavily obscured AGNs at luminosities beyond the
reach of current X-ray surveys ($\S$2.2 and $\S$2.3), enabling us to resolve
the connection between SMBH growth and their environment.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.11145v1
The Next Generation Celestial Reference Frame
Astrometry, the measurement of positions and motions of the stars, is one of
the oldest disciplines in Astronomy, extending back at least as far as
Hipparchus' discovery of the precession of Earth's axes in 190 BCE by comparing
his catalog with those of his predecessors. Astrometry is fundamental to
Astronomy, and critical to many aspects of Astrophysics and Geodesy. In order
to understand our planet's and solar system's context within their
surroundings, we must be able to to define, quantify, study, refine, and
maintain an inertial frame of reference relative to which all positions and
motions can be unambiguously and self-consistently described. It is only by
using this inertial reference frame that we are able to disentangle our
observations of the motions of celestial objects from our own complex path
around our star, and its path through the galaxy, and the local group. Every
aspect of each area outlined in the call for scientific frontiers in astronomy
in the era of the 2020-2030 timeframe will depend on the quality of the
inertial reference frame. In this white paper, we propose support for
development of radio Very Long Baseline Interferometry (VLBI) capabilities,
including the Next Generation Very Large Array (ngVLA), a radio astronomy
observatory that will not only support development of a next generation
reference frame of unprecedented accuracy, but that will also serve as a highly
capable astronomical instrument in its own right. Much like its predecessors,
the Very Long Baseline Array (VLBA) and other VLBI telescopes, the proposed
ngVLA will provide the foundation for the next three decades for the
fundamental reference frame, benefitting astronomy, astrophysics, and geodesy
alike.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.12338v1
High-Energy Photon and Particle Effects onExoplanet Atmospheres and
  Habitability
It is now recognized that energetic stellar photon and particle radiation
evaporates and erodes planetary atmospheres and controls upper atmospheric
chemistry. Key exoplanet host stars will be too faint at X-ray wavelengths for
accurate characterization using existing generation and future slated X-ray
telescopes. Observation of stellar coronal mass ejections and winds are also
beyond current instrumentation. In line with theCommittee on an Exoplanet
Science Strategy recognition that holistic observational approaches are needed,
we point out here that a full understanding of exoplanet atmospheres, their
evolution and determination of habitability requires a powerful high-resolution
X-ray imaging and spectroscopic observatory. This is the only capability that
can: (1) characterize by proxy the crucial, difficult to observe, EUV stellar
flux, its history and its variations for planet hosting stars; (2) observe the
stellar wind; (3) detect the subtle Doppler signatures of coronal mass
ejections.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1904.00108v1
The Physics of Accretion Onto Highly Magnetized Neutron Stars
Studying the physical processes occurring in the region just above the
magnetic poles of strongly magnetized, accreting binary neutron stars is
essential to our understanding of stellar and binary system evolution. Perhaps
more importantly, it provides us with a natural laboratory for studying the
physics of high temperature and high density plasmas exposed to extreme
radiation, gravitational, and magnetic fields. Observations over the past
decade have shed new light on the manner in which plasma falling at velocities
near the speed of light onto a neutron star surface is halted. Recent advances
in modeling these processes have resulted in direct measurement of the magnetic
fields and plasma properties. On the other hand, numerous physical processes
have been identified that challenge our current picture of how the accretion
process onto neutron stars works. Observation and theory are our essential
tools in this regime because the extreme conditions cannot be duplicated on
Earth. This white paper gives an overview of the current theory, the
outstanding theoretical and observational challenges, and the importance of
addressing them in contemporary astrophysics research.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1904.01174v1
WFIRST: The Essential Cosmology Space Observatory for the Coming Decade
Two decades after its discovery, cosmic acceleration remains the most
profound mystery in cosmology and arguably in all of physics. Either the
Universe is dominated by a form of dark energy with exotic physical properties
not predicted by standard model physics, or General Relativity is not an
adequate description of gravity over cosmic distances. WFIRST emerged as a top
priority of Astro2010 in part because of its ability to address the mystery of
cosmic acceleration through both high precision measurements of the cosmic
expansion history and the growth of cosmic structures with multiple and
redundant probes. We illustrate in this white paper how mission design changes
since Astro2010 have made WFIRST an even more powerful dark energy facility and
have improved the ability of WFIRST to respond to changes in the experimental
landscape. WFIRST is the space-based probe of DE the community needs in the
mid-2020s.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1904.02715v1
Exocometary Science
Evidence for exocomets, icy bodies in extrasolar planetary systems, has
rapidly increased over the past decade. Volatiles are detected through the gas
that exocomets release as they collide and grind down within their natal belts,
or as they sublimate once scattered inwards to the regions closest to their
host star. Most detections are in young, 10 to a few 100 Myr-old systems that
are undergoing the final stages of terrestrial planet formation. This opens the
exciting possibility to study exocomets at the epoch of volatile delivery to
the inner regions of planetary systems. Detection of molecular and atomic gas
in exocometary belts allows us to estimate molecular ice abundances and overall
elemental abundances, enabling comparison with the Solar Nebula and Solar
System comets. At the same time, observing star-grazing exocomets transiting in
front of their star (for planetary systems viewed edge-on) and exozodiacal dust
in the systems' innermost regions gives unique dynamical insights into the
inward scattering process producing delivery to inner rocky planets. The rapid
advances of this budding subfield of exoplanetary science will continue in the
short term with the upcoming JWST, WFIRST and PLATO missions. In the longer
term, the priority should be to explore the full composition of exocomets,
including species crucial for delivery and later prebiotic synthesis. Doing so
around an increasingly large population of exoplanetary systems is equally
important, to enable comparative studies of young exocomets at the epoch of
volatile delivery. We identify the proposed LUVOIR and Origins flagship
missions as the most promising for a large-scale exploration of exocometary
gas, a crucial component of the chemical heritage of young exo-Earths.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1904.04839v2
Astro 2020 Science White Paper: Evolved Planetary Systems around White
  Dwarfs
Practically all known planet hosts will evolve into white dwarfs, and large
parts of their planetary systems will survive this transition - the same is
true for the solar system beyond the orbit of Mars. Spectroscopy of white
dwarfs accreting planetary debris provides the most accurate insight into the
bulk composition of exo-planets. Ground-based spectroscopic surveys of ~260,
000 white dwarfs detected with Gaia will identify >1000 evolved planetary
systems, and high-throughput high-resolution space-based ultraviolet
spectroscopy is essential to measure in detail their abundances. So far,
evidence for two planetesimals orbiting closely around white dwarfs has been
obtained, and their study provides important constraints on the composition and
internal structure of these bodies. Major photometric and spectroscopic efforts
will be necessary to assemble a sample of such close-in planetesimals that is
sufficiently large to establish their properties as a population, and to deduce
the architectures of the outer planetary systems from where they originated.
Mid-infrared spectroscopy of the dusty disks will provide detailed
mineralogical information of the debris, which, in combination with the
elemental abundances measured from the white dwarf spectroscopy, will enable
detailed physical modelling of the chemical, thermodynamic, and physical
history of the accreted material. Flexible multi-epoch infrared observations
are essential to determine the physical nature, and origin of the variability
observed in many of the dusty disks. Finally, the direct detection of the outer
reservoirs feeding material to the white dwarfs will require sensitive mid- and
far-infrared capabilities.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1904.05897v1
Achieving Transformative Understanding of Extreme Stellar Explosions
  with ELT-enabled Late-time Spectroscopy
Supernovae are among the most powerful and influential explosions in the
universe. They are also ideal multi-messenger laboratories to study extreme
astrophysics. However, many fundamental properties of supernovae related to
their diverse progenitor systems and explosion mechanisms remain poorly
constrained. Here we outline how late-time spectroscopic observations obtained
during the nebular phase (several months to years after explosion), made
possible with the next generation of Extremely Large Telescopes, will
facilitate transformational science opportunities and rapidly accelerate the
community towards our goal of achieving a complete understanding of supernova
explosions. We highlight specific examples of how complementary GMT and TMT
instrumentation will enable high fidelity spectroscopy from which the line
profiles and luminosities of elements tracing mass loss and ejecta can be used
to extract kinematic and chemical information with unprecedented detail, for
hundreds of objects. This will provide uniquely powerful constraints on the
evolutionary phases stars may experience approaching a supernova explosion; the
subsequent explosion dynamics; their nucleosynthesis yields; and the formation
of compact objects that may act as central engines.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1904.09326v1
Disentangling nature from nurture: tracing the origin of seed black
  holes
The origin and properties of black hole seeds that grow to produce the
detected population of supermassive black holes are unconstrained at present.
Despite the existence of several potentially feasible channels for the
production of initial seeds in the high redshift universe, since even actively
growing seeds are not directly observable at these epochs, discriminating
between models remains challenging. Several new observables that encapsulate
information about seeding have been proposed in recent years, and these offer
exciting prospects for truly unraveling the nature of black hole seeds in the
coming years. One of the key challenges for this task lies in the complexity of
the problem, the required disentangling of the confounding effects of accretion
physics and mergers, as mergers and accretion events over cosmic time stand to
erase these initial conditions. Nevertheless, some unique signatures of seeding
do survive and still exist in: local scaling relations between black holes and
their galaxy hosts at low-masses; in high-redshift luminosity functions of
accreting black holes; and in the total number and mass functions of
gravitational wave coalescence events from merging binary black holes. One of
the clearest discriminants for seed models are these high redshift
gravitational wave detections of mergers from space detectable in the
milliHertz range. These predicted event rates offer the most direct constraints
on the properties of initial black hole seeds. Improving our theoretical
understanding of black hole dynamics and accretion will also be pivotal in
constraining seeding models in combination with the wide range of
multi-messenger data.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1904.12968v1
The Most Powerful Lenses in the Universe: Quasar Microlensing as a Probe
  of the Lensing Galaxy
Optical and X-ray observations of strongly gravitationally lensed quasars
(especially when four separate images of the quasar are produced) determine not
only the amount of matter in the lensing galaxy but also how much is in a
smooth component and how much is composed of compact masses (e.g., stars,
stellar remnants, primordial black holes, CDM sub-halos, and planets). Future
optical surveys will discover hundreds to thousands of quadruply lensed
quasars, and sensitive X-ray observations will unambiguously determine the
ratio of smooth to clumpy matter at specific locations in the lensing galaxies
and calibrate the stellar mass fundamental plane, providing a determination of
the stellar $M/L$. A modest observing program with a sensitive, sub-arcsecond
X-ray imager, combined with the planned optical observations, can make those
determinations for a large number (hundreds) of the lensing galaxies, which
will span a redshift range of $\sim$$0.25<z<1.5$

http://arxiv.org/abs/1905.11402v1
Lyman continuum observations across cosmic time: recent developments,
  future requirements
Quantifying the physical conditions that allow radiation emitted shortward of
the hydrogen ionization edge at 911.7 {\AA} to escape the first collapsed
objects and ultimately reionize the universe is a compelling problem for
astrophysics. The escape of LyC emission from star-forming galaxies and AGN is
intimately tied to the emergence and sustenance of the metagalactic ionizing
background that pervades the universe to the present day and in turn is tied to
the emergence of structure at all epochs. JWST was built in part to search for
the source(s) responsible for reionization, but it cannot observe LyC escape
directly, because of the progressive increase in the mean transmission of the
intergalactic medium towards the epoch of reionization. Remarkable progress has
been made to date in directly detecting LyC leaking from star-forming galaxies
using space-based and the ground-based observatories, but there remain
significant gaps in our redshift coverage of the phenomenon. Ongoing projects
to measure LyC escape at low- and intermediate-z will provide guidance to JWST
investigations by analyzing the robustness of a set of proposed LyC escape
proxies, and also provide a closeup examination of the physical conditions that
favor LyC escape. However, currently available facilities are inadequate for
deeply probing LyC escape at the faint end of the galaxy luminosity function.
Doing so will require facilities that can detect LyC emission in the restframe
to limiting magnitudes approaching 28 $< m^*_{(1+z)900} <$ 32 for
$M^*_{(1+z)1500}$ galaxies. The goal of acquiring statistically robust samples
for determining LyC luminosity functions across cosmic time will require
multi-object spectroscopy from spacebased flagship class and groundbased ELT
class telescopes along with ancillary panchromatic imaging and spectroscopy
spanning the far-UV to the mid-IR.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1907.04886v1
Another Servicing Mission to Extend Hubble Space Telescope's Science
  past the Next Decade
The Hubble Space Telescope has produced astonishing science over the past
thirty years. Hubble's productivity can continue to soar for years to come
provided some worn out components get upgraded. While powerful new ground-based
and space telescopes are expected to come online over the next decade, none of
them will have the UV capabilities that make Hubble a unique observatory.
Without Hubble, progress in UV and blue optical astrophysics will be halted.
Observations at these wavelengths are key for a range of unresolved
astrophysics questions, ranging from the characterization of solar system
planets to understanding interaction of galaxies with the intergalactic medium
and the formation history of the universe. Hubble will remain our only source
of high-angular resolution UV imaging and high-sensitivity UV spectroscopy for
the next two decades, offering the ability for continued unique science and
maximizing the science return from complementary observatories. Therefore, we
recommend that NASA, ESA, and the private sector study the scientific merit,
technical feasibility, and risk of a new servicing mission to Hubble to boost
its orbit, fix aging components, and expand its instrumentation. Doing so
would: 1) keep Hubble on its path to reach its unmet full potential, 2) extend
the mission's lifetime past the next decade, which will maximize the synergy of
Hubble with other upcoming facilities, and 3) enable and enhance the
continuation of scientific discoveries in UV and optical astrophysics.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1907.05263v1
Commensal, Multi-user Observations with an Ethernet-based Jansky Very
  Large Array
Over the last decade, the continuing decline in the cost of digital computing
technology has brought about a dramatic transformation in how digital
instrumentation for radio astronomy is developed and operated. In most cases,
it is now possible to interface consumer computing hardware, e.g. inexpensive
graphics processing units and storage devices, directly to the raw data streams
produced by radio telescopes. Such systems bring with them myriad benefits:
straightforward upgrade paths, cost savings through leveraging an economy of
scale, and a lowered barrier to entry for scientists and engineers seeking to
add new instrument capabilities. Additionally, the typical data-interconnect
technology used with general-purpose computing hardware -- Ethernet --
naturally permits multiple subscribers to a single raw data stream. This allows
multiple science programs to be conducted in parallel. When combined with broad
bandwidths and wide primary fields of view, radio telescopes become capable of
achieving many science goals simultaneously. Moreover, because many science
programs are not strongly dependent on observing cadence and direction (e.g.
searches for extraterrestrial intelligence and radio transient surveys), these
so-called "commensal" observing programs can dramatically increase the
scientific productivity and discovery potential of an observatory. In this
whitepaper, we detail a project to add an Ethernet-based commensal observing
mode to the Jansky Very Large Array (VLA), and discuss how this mode could be
leveraged to conduct a powerful program to constrain the distribution of
advanced life in the universe through a search for radio emission indicative of
technology. We also discuss other potential science use-cases for the system,
and how the system could be used for technology development towards
next-generation processing systems for the Next Generation VLA.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1907.05407v1
FARSIDE: A Low Radio Frequency Interferometric Array on the Lunar
  Farside
FARSIDE (Farside Array for Radio Science Investigations of the Dark ages and
Exoplanets) is a Probe-class concept to place a low radio frequency
interferometric array on the farside of the Moon. A NASA-funded design study,
focused on the instrument, a deployment rover, the lander and base station,
delivered an architecture broadly consistent with the requirements for a Probe
mission. This notional architecture consists of 128 dual polarization antennas
deployed across a 10 km area by a rover, and tethered to a base station for
central processing, power and data transmission to the Lunar Gateway. FARSIDE
would provide the capability to image the entire sky each minute in 1400
channels spanning frequencies from 100 kHz to 40 MHz, extending down two orders
of magnitude below bands accessible to ground-based radio astronomy. The lunar
farside can simultaneously provide isolation from terrestrial radio frequency
interference, auroral kilometric radiation, and plasma noise from the solar
wind. This would enable near-continuous monitoring of the nearest stellar
systems in the search for the radio signatures of coronal mass ejections and
energetic particle events, and would also detect the magnetospheres for the
nearest candidate habitable exoplanets. Simultaneously, FARSIDE would be used
to characterize similar activity in our own solar system, from the Sun to the
outer planets, including the hypothetical Planet Nine. Through precision
calibration via an orbiting beacon, and exquisite foreground characterization,
FARSIDE would also measure the Dark Ages global 21-cm signal at redshifts
z=50-100. The unique observational window offered by FARSIDE would enable an
abundance of additional science ranging from sounding of the lunar subsurface
to characterization of the interstellar medium in the solar system
neighborhood.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1907.06482v2
The Laser Interferometer Space Antenna: Unveiling the Millihertz
  Gravitational Wave Sky
The first terrestrial gravitational wave interferometers have dramatically
underscored the scientific value of observing the Universe through an entirely
different window, and of folding this new channel of information with
traditional astronomical data for a multimessenger view. The Laser
Interferometer Space Antenna (LISA) will broaden the reach of gravitational
wave astronomy by conducting the first survey of the millihertz gravitational
wave sky, detecting tens of thousands of individual astrophysical sources
ranging from white-dwarf binaries in our own galaxy to mergers of massive black
holes at redshifts extending beyond the epoch of reionization. These
observations will inform - and transform - our understanding of the end state
of stellar evolution, massive black hole birth, and the co-evolution of
galaxies and black holes through cosmic time. LISA also has the potential to
detect gravitational wave emission from elusive astrophysical sources such as
intermediate-mass black holes as well as exotic cosmological sources such as
inflationary fields and cosmic string cusps.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1907.06754v1
Integrating Undergraduate Research and Faculty Development in a Legacy
  Astronomy Research Project
The NSF-sponsored Undergraduate ALFALFA Team (UAT) promotes long-term
collaborative research opportunities for faculty and students from 23 U.S.
public and private primarily undergraduate institutions (PUIs) within the
context of the extragalactic ALFALFA HI blind legacy survey project. Over
twelve project years of partnering with Arecibo and Green Bank Observatories,
the UAT has had a demonstrable impact on the health of a legacy astronomy
project, science education, and equity/inclusion in astronomy, with successful
outcomes for 373 UAT students (39% women; ~30% members of underrepresented
groups) and 34 faculty (44% women). The UAT model is adaptable to many large
scientific projects and can be supported by relatively modest funding. We
recommend that granting agencies identify funding resources to support the
model, either as an add-on to legacy grant support or as a stand-alone funding
source. This could include encouragement of UAT-like components in large scale
projects currently being developed, such as the LSST and TMT. By doing this, we
will recognize the high numbers of astronomy research-trained
heavy-teaching-load faculty at PUIs as an under-utilized resource of the
astronomy community (see also White Paper by Ribaudo et al.). These members of
our community have the skills and the strong desire to contribute meaningfully
to their field, as well as the ability to encourage and interact closely with
many talented and motivated undergraduate students from all backgrounds.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1907.06981v1
Astro2020 APC White Paper: Elevating the Role of Software as a Product
  of the Research Enterprise
Software is a critical part of modern research, and yet there are
insufficient mechanisms in the scholarly ecosystem to acknowledge, cite, and
measure the impact of research software. The majority of academic fields rely
on a one-dimensional credit model whereby academic articles (and their
associated citations) are the dominant factor in the success of a researcher's
career. In the petabyte era of astronomical science, citing software and
measuring its impact enables academia to retain and reward researchers that
make significant software contributions. These highly skilled researchers must
be retained to maximize the scientific return from petabyte-scale datasets.
Evolving beyond the one-dimensional credit model requires overcoming several
key challenges, including the current scholarly ecosystem and scientific
culture issues. This white paper will present these challenges and suggest
practical solutions for elevating the role of software as a product of the
research enterprise.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1907.07648v1
The DSA-2000 -- A Radio Survey Camera
We present the DSA-2000: a world-leading radio survey telescope and
multi-messenger discovery engine for the next decade. The array will be the
first true radio camera, outputting science-ready image data over the 0.7 - 2
GHz frequency range with a spatial resolution of 3.5 arcsec. With 2000 x 5 m
dishes, the DSA-2000 will have an equivalent point-source sensitivity to
SKA1-mid, but with ten times the survey speed. The DSA-2000 is envisaged as an
all-sky survey instrument complementary to the ngVLA, and as a counterpart to
the LSST (optical), SPHEREx (near-infrared) and SRG/eROSITA (X-ray) all-sky
surveys. Over a five-year prime phase, the DSA-2000 will image the entire sky
above declination -30 degrees every four months, detecting > 1 unique billion
radio sources in a combined full-Stokes sky map with 500 nJy/beam rms noise.
This all-sky survey will be complemented by intermediate and deep surveys, as
well as spectral and polarization image cubes. The array will be a cornerstone
for multi-messenger science, serving as the principal instrument for the US
pulsar timing array community, and by searching for radio afterglows of compact
object mergers detected by LIGO and Virgo. The array will simultaneously detect
and localize ~10,000 fast radio bursts each year, realizing their ultimate use
as a cosmological tool. The DSA-2000 will be proposed to the NSF Mid-Scale
Research Infrastructure-2 program with a view to first light in 2026

http://arxiv.org/abs/1907.08043v1
Embedding Climate Change Engagement in Astronomy Education and Research
This White Paper is a call to action for astronomers to respond to climate
change with a large structural transition within our profession. Many
astronomers are deeply concerned about climate change and act upon it in their
personal and professional lives, and many organizations within astronomy have
incorporated incremental changes. We need a collective impact model to better
network and grow our efforts so that we can achieve results that are on the
scale appropriate to address climate change at the necessary level indicated by
scientific research; e.g., becoming carbon neutral by 2050. We need to
implement strategies within two primary drivers of our field: (1) Education and
Outreach, and (2) Research Practices and Infrastructure. (1) In the classroom
and through public talks, astronomers reach a large audience. Astronomy is
closely connected to the science of climate change, and it is arguably the most
important topic we include in our curriculum. Due to misinformation and
disinformation, climate change communication is different than for other areas
of science. We therefore need to expand our communication and implement
effective strategies, for which there is now a considerable body of research.
(2) On a per-person basis astronomers have an outsized carbon impact. There are
numerous ways we can reduce our footprint; e.g., in the design and operation of
telescope facilities and in the optimization and reduction of travel.
Fortunately, many of these solutions are win-win scenarios, e.g., increasing
the online presence of conferences will reduce the carbon footprint while
increasing participation, especially for astronomers working with fewer
financial resources. Astronomers have an obligation to act on climate change in
every way possible, and we need to do it now. In this White Paper, we outline a
plan for collective impact using a Networked Improvement Community (NIC)
approach.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1907.09496v1
Astrobites as a Community-led Model for Education, Science
  Communication, and Accessibility in Astrophysics
Support for early career astronomers who are just beginning to explore
astronomy research is imperative to increase retention of diverse practitioners
in the field. Since 2010, Astrobites has played an instrumental role in
engaging members of the community -- particularly undergraduate and graduate
students -- in research. In this white paper, the Astrobites collaboration
outlines our multi-faceted online education platform that both eases the
transition into astronomy research and promotes inclusive professional
development opportunities. We additionally offer recommendations for how the
astronomy community can reduce barriers to entry to astronomy research in the
coming decade.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1907.09508v1
High-Contrast Testbeds for Future Space-Based Direct Imaging Exoplanet
  Missions
Instrumentation techniques in the field of direct imaging of exoplanets have
greatly advanced over the last two decades. Two of the four NASA-commissioned
large concept studies involve a high-contrast instrument for the imaging and
spectral characterization of exo-Earths from space: LUVOIR and HabEx. This
whitepaper describes the status of 8 optical testbeds in the US and France
currently in operation to experimentally validate the necessary technologies to
image exo-Earths from space. They explore two complementary axes of research:
(i) coronagraph designs and manufacturing and (ii) active wavefront correction
methods and technologies. Several instrument architectures are currently being
analyzed in parallel to provide more degrees of freedom for designing the
future coronagraphic instruments. The necessary level of performance has
already been demonstrated in-laboratory for clear off-axis telescopes
(HabEx-like) and important efforts are currently in development to reproduce
this accomplishment on segmented and/or on-axis telescopes (LUVOIR-like) over
the next two years.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1907.11305v1
Space Based Gravitational Wave Astronomy Beyond LISA
The Laser Interferometer Space Antenna (LISA) will open three decades of
gravitational wave (GW) spectrum between 0.1 and 100 mHz, the mHz band. This
band is expected to be the richest part of the GW spectrum, in types of
sources, numbers of sources, signal-to-noise ratios and discovery potential.
When LISA opens the low-frequency window of the gravitational wave spectrum,
around 2034, the surge of gravitational-wave astronomy will strongly compel a
subsequent mission to further explore the frequency bands of the GW spectrum
that can only be accessed from space. The 2020s is the time to start developing
technology and studying mission concepts for a large-scale mission to be
launched in the 2040s. The mission concept would then be proposed to Astro2030.
Only space based missions can access the GW spectrum between 10 nHz and 1 Hz
because of the Earths seismic noise. This white paper surveys the science in
this band and mission concepts that could accomplish that science. The proposed
small scale activity is a technology development program that would support a
range of concepts and a mission concept study to choose a specific mission
concept for Astro2030. In this white paper, we will refer to a generic GW
mission beyond LISA as bLISA.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1907.12526v3
The Next-Generation Radio Neutrino Observatory -- Multi-Messenger
  Neutrino Astrophysics at Extreme Energies
RNO is the mid-scale discovery instrument designed to make the first
observation of neutrinos from the cosmos at extreme energies, with sensitivity
well beyond current instrument capabilities. This new observatory will be the
largest ground-based neutrino telescope to date, enabling the measurement of
neutrinos above $10^{16}$ eV, determining the nature of the astrophysical
neutrino flux that has been measured by IceCube at higher energies, similarly
extending the reach of multi-messenger astrophysics to the highest energies,
and enabling investigations of fundamental physics at energies unreachable by
particle accelerators on Earth.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1907.13090v1
Research and Development for HI Intensity Mapping
Development of the hardware, data analysis, and simulation techniques for
large compact radio arrays dedicated to mapping the 21 cm line of neutral
hydrogen gas has proven to be more difficult than imagined twenty years ago
when such telescopes were first proposed. Despite tremendous technical and
methodological advances, there are several outstanding questions on how to
optimally calibrate and analyze such data. On the positive side, it has become
clear that the outstanding issues are purely technical in nature and can be
solved with sufficient development activity. Such activity will enable science
across redshifts, from early galaxy evolution in the pre-reionization era to
dark energy evolution at low redshift.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1908.00548v1
Community Involvement in the WFIRST Exoplanet Microlensing Survey
WFIRST is NASA's first flagship mission with pre-defined core science
programs to study dark energy and perform a statistical census of wide orbit
exoplanets with a gravitational microlensing survey. Together, these programs
are expected to use more than half of the prime mission observing time.
Previously, only smaller, PI-led missions have had core programs that used such
a large fraction of the observing time, and in many cases, the data from these
PI-led missions was reserved for the PI's science team for a proprietary period
that allowed the PI's team to make most of the major discoveries from the data.
Such a procedure is not appropriate for a flagship mission, which should
provide science opportunities to the entire astronomy community. For this
reason, there will be no proprietary period for WFIRST data, but we argue that
a larger effort to make WFIRST science accessible to the astronomy community is
needed. We propose a plan to enhance community involvement in the WFIRST
exoplanet microlensing survey in two different ways. First, we propose a set of
high level data products that will enable astronomers without detailed
microlensing expertise access to the statistical implications of the WFIRST
exoplanet microlensing survey data. And second, we propose the formation of a
WFIRST Exoplanet Microlensing Community Science Team that will open up
participation in the development of the WFIRST exoplanet microlensing survey to
the general astronomy community in collaboration for the NASA selected science
team, which will have the responsibility to provide most of the high level data
products. This community science team will be open to volunteers, but members
should also have the opportunity to apply for funding.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1908.05171v1
Linking the Solar System and Extrasolar Planetary Systems with Radar
  Astronomy: Infrastructure for "Ground Truth" Comparison
Planetary radars have obtained unique science measurements about solar system
bodies and they have provided orbit determinations allowing spacecraft to be
navigated throughout the solar system. Notable results have been on Venus,
Earth's "twin," and small bodies, which are the constituents of the Sun's
debris disk. Together, these results have served as "ground truth" from the
solar system for studies of extrasolar planets. The Nation's planetary radar
infrastructure, indeed the world's planetary radar infrastructure, is based on
astronomical and deep space telecommunications infrastructure, namely the radar
transmitters at the Arecibo Observatory and the Goldstone Solar System Radar,
part of NASA's Deep Space Network, along with the Green Bank Telescope as a
receiving element. This white paper summarizes the state of this infrastructure
and potential technical developments that should be sustained in order to
enable continued studies of solar system bodies for comparison and contrast
with extrasolar planetary systems. Because the planetary radar observations
leverage existing infrastructure largely developed for other purposes, only
operations and maintenance funding is required, though modest investments could
yield more reliable systems; in the case of the Green Bank Telescope,
additional funding for operations is required.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1908.07495v1
PICO: Probe of Inflation and Cosmic Origins
The Probe of Inflation and Cosmic Origins (PICO) is a proposed probe-scale
space mission consisting of an imaging polarimeter operating in frequency bands
between 20 and 800 GHz. We describe the science achievable by PICO, which has
sensitivity equivalent to more than 3300 Planck missions, the technical
implementation, the schedule and cost.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1908.11417v1
Infrastructure and Strategies for Time Domain and MMA and Follow-Up
Time domain and multi-messenger astrophysics are growing and important modes
of observational astronomy that will help define astrophysics in the 2020s.
Significant effort is being put into developing the components of a follow-up
system for dynamically turning survey alerts into data. This system consists
of: 1) brokers that will aggregate, classify, and filter alerts; 2) Target
Observation Managers (TOMs) for prioritizing targets and managing observations
and data; and 3) observatory interfaces, schedulers, and facilities along with
data reduction software and science archives. These efforts need continued
community support and funding in order to complete and maintain them. Many of
the efforts can be community open-source software projects but they will
benefit from the leadership of professional software developers. The
coordination should be done by institutions that are involved in the follow-up
system such as the national observatories (e.g. LSST/Gemini/NOAO
Mid-scale/Community Science and Data Center) or a new MMA institute. These
tools will help the community to produce the most science from new facilities
and will provide new capabilities for all users of the facilities that adopt
them.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1909.01411v2
Studying Black Holes on Horizon Scales with VLBI Ground Arrays
High-resolution imaging of supermassive black holes is now possible, with new
applications to testing general relativity and horizon-scale accretion and
relativistic jet formation processes. Over the coming decade, the EHT will
propose to add new strategically placed VLBI elements operating at 1.3mm and
0.87mm wavelength. In parallel, development of next-generation backend
instrumentation, coupled with high throughput correlation architectures, will
boost sensitivity, allowing the new stations to be of modest collecting area
while still improving imaging fidelity and angular resolution. The goal of
these efforts is to move from imaging static horizon scale structure to dynamic
reconstructions that capture the processes of accretion and jet launching in
near real time.

http://arxiv.org/abs/2001.00970v1
A Native Hawaiian-led summary of the current impact of constructing the
  Thirty Meter Telescope on Maunakea
Maunakea, the proposed site of the Thirty Meter Telescope (TMT), is a
lightning-rod topic for Native Hawaiians, Hawaii residents, and the
international astronomy community. In this paper we, Native Hawaiian natural
scientists and allies, identify historical decisions that impact current
circumstances on Maunakea and provide approaches to acknowledging their
presence. Our aim is to provide an Indigenous viewpoint centered in Native
Hawaiian perspectives on the impacts of the TMT project on the Hawaiian
community. We summarize the current Maunakea context from the perspective of
the authors who are trained in the natural sciences (inclusive of and beyond
astronomy and physics), the majority of whom are Native Hawaiian or Indigenous.
We highlight three major themes in the conflict surrounding TMT: 1) physical
demonstrations and the use of law enforcement against the protectors of
Maunakea; 2) an assessment of the benefit of Maunakea astronomy to Native
Hawaiians; and 3) the disconnect between astronomers and Native Hawaiians. We
close with general short- and long- term recommendations for the astronomy
community, which represent steps that can be taken to re-establish trust and
engage in meaningful reciprocity and collaboration with Native Hawaiians and
other Indigenous communities. Our recommendations are based on established best
principles of free, prior, and informed consent and researcher-community
interactions that extend beyond transactional exchanges. We emphasize that
development of large-scale astronomical instrumentation must be predicated on
consensus from the local Indigenous community about whether development is
allowed on their homelands. Proactive steps must be taken to center Indigenous
voices in the earliest stages of project design.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.06154v2
An Ultra Deep Field survey with WFIRST
Studying the formation and evolution of galaxies at the earliest cosmic
times, and their role in reionization, requires the deepest imaging possible.
Ultra-deep surveys like the HUDF and HFF have pushed to mag \mAB$\,\sim\,$30,
revealing galaxies at the faint end of the LF to $z$$\,\sim\,$9$\,-\,$11 and
constraining their role in reionization. However, a key limitation of these
fields is their size, only a few arcminutes (less than a Mpc at these
redshifts), too small to probe large-scale environments or clustering
properties of these galaxies, crucial for advancing our understanding of
reionization. Achieving HUDF-quality depth over areas $\sim$100 times larger
becomes possible with a mission like the Wide Field Infrared Survey Telescope
(WFIRST), a 2.4-m telescope with similar optical properties to HST, with a
field of view of $\sim$1000 arcmin$^2$, $\sim$100$\times$ the area of the
HST/ACS HUDF.
  This whitepaper motivates an Ultra-Deep Field survey with WFIRST, covering
$\sim$100$\,-\,$300$\times$ the area of the HUDF, or up to $\sim$1 deg$^2$, to
\mAB$\,\sim\,$30, potentially revealing thousands of galaxies and AGN at the
faint end of the LF, at or beyond $z$\,$\sim$\,9$\,-\,$10 in the epoch of
reionization, and tracing their LSS environments, dramatically increasing the
discovery potential at these redshifts.
  (Note: This paper is a somewhat expanded version of one that was submitted as
input to the Astro2020 Decadal Survey, with this version including an Appendix
(which exceeded the Astro2020 page limits), describing how the science drivers
for a WFIRST Ultra Deep Field might map into a notional observing program,
including the filters used and exposure times needed to achieve these depths.)

http://arxiv.org/abs/1907.07737v1
The Southern Wide-Field Gamma-Ray Observatory (SWGO): A Next-Generation
  Ground-Based Survey Instrument for VHE Gamma-Ray Astronomy
We describe plans for the development of the Southern Wide-field Gamma-ray
Observatory (SWGO), a next-generation instrument with sensitivity to the
very-high-energy (VHE) band to be constructed in the Southern Hemisphere. SWGO
will provide wide-field coverage of a large portion of the southern sky,
effectively complementing current and future instruments in the global
multi-messenger effort to understand extreme astrophysical phenomena throughout
the universe. A detailed description of science topics addressed by SWGO is
available in the science case white paper [1]. The development of SWGO will
draw on extensive experience within the community in designing, constructing,
and successfully operating wide-field instruments using observations of
extensive air showers. The detector will consist of a compact inner array of
particle detection units surrounded by a sparser outer array. A key advantage
of the design of SWGO is that it can be constructed using current, already
proven technology. We estimate a construction cost of 54M USD and a cost of
7.5M USD for 5 years of operation, with an anticipated US contribution of 20M
USD ensuring that the US will be a driving force for the SWGO effort. The
recently formed SWGO collaboration will conduct site selection and detector
optimization studies prior to construction, with full operations foreseen to
begin in 2026. Throughout this document, references to science white papers
submitted to the Astro2020 Decadal Survey with particular relevance to the key
science goals of SWGO, which include unveiling Galactic particle accelerators
[2-10], exploring the dynamic universe [11-21], and probing physics beyond the
Standard Model [22-25], are highlighted in red boldface.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.03263v1
Science from an Ultra-Deep, High-Resolution Millimeter-Wave Survey
Opening up a new window of millimeter-wave observations that span frequency
bands in the range of 30 to 500 GHz, survey half the sky, and are both an order
of magnitude deeper (about 0.5 uK-arcmin) and of higher-resolution (about 10
arcseconds) than currently funded surveys would yield an enormous gain in
understanding of both fundamental physics and astrophysics. In particular, such
a survey would allow for major advances in measuring the distribution of dark
matter and gas on small-scales, and yield needed insight on 1.) dark matter
particle properties, 2.) the evolution of gas and galaxies, 3.) new light
particle species, 4.) the epoch of inflation, and 5.) the census of bodies
orbiting in the outer Solar System.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.03629v1
Cosmic Dawn and Reionization: Astrophysics in the Final Frontier
The cosmic dawn and epoch of reionization mark the time period in the
universe when stars, galaxies, and blackhole seeds first formed and the
intergalactic medium changed from neutral to an ionized one. Despite
substantial progress with multi-wavelength observations, astrophysical process
during this time period remain some of the least understood with large
uncertainties on our existing models of galaxy, blackhole, and structure
formation. This white paper outlines the current state of knowledge and
anticipated scientific outcomes with ground and space-based astronomical
facilities in the 2020s. We then propose a number of scientific goals and
objectives for new facilities in late 2020s to mid 2030s that will lead to
definitive measurements of key astrophysical processes in the epoch of
reionization and cosmic dawn.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04078v1
The First Luminous Quasars and Their Host Galaxies
The discovery of luminous quasars at redshifts up to 7.5 demonstrates the
existence of several billion M_sun supermassive black holes (SMBHs) less than a
billion years after the Big Bang. They are accompanied by intense star
formation in their host galaxies, pinpointing sites of massive galaxy assembly
in the early universe, while their absorption spectra reveal an increasing
neutral intergalactic medium (IGM) at the epoch of reionization. Extrapolating
from the rapid evolution of the quasar density at z=5-7, we expect that there
is only one luminous quasar powered by a billion M_sun SMBH in the entire
observable universe at z~9. In the next decade, new wide-field, deep
near-infrared (NIR) sky surveys will push the redshift frontier to the first
luminous quasars at z~9-10; the combination with new deep X-ray surveys will
probe fainter quasar populations that trace earlier phases of SMBH growth. The
identification of these record-breaking quasars, and the measurements of their
BH masses and accretion properties require sensitive spectroscopic observations
with next generation of ground-based and space telescopes at NIR wavelengths.
High-resolution integral-field spectroscopy at NIR, and observations at
millimeter and radio wavelengths, will together provide a panchromatic view of
the quasar host galaxies and their galactic environment at cosmic dawn,
connecting SMBH growth with the rise of the earliest massive galaxies.
Systematic surveys and multiwavelength follow-up observations of the earliest
luminous quasars will strongly constrain the seeding and growth of the first
SMBHs in the universe, and provide the best lines of sight to study the history
of reionization.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04083v2
The Advanced X-ray Imaging Satellite
Much of the baryonic matter in the Universe, including the most active and
luminous sources, are best studied in the X-ray band. Key advances in X-ray
optics and detectors have paved the way for the Advanced X-ray Imaging
Satellite (AXIS), a Probe-class mission that is a major improvement over
Chandra, which has generated a steady stream of important discoveries for the
past 2 decades. AXIS can be launched in the late 2020s and will transform our
understanding in several major areas of astrophysics, including the growth and
fueling of supermassive black holes, galaxy formation and evolution, the
microphysics of cosmic plasmas, the time-variable universe, and a wide variety
of cutting-edge studies. Relative to Chandra, the AXIS PSF is nearly twice as
sharp on-axis; its field of view for subarcsecond imaging 70 times larger by
area; its effective area at 1 keV is 10 times larger. The low-Earth orbit
ensures a low and stable detector background, resulting in 50 times greater
sensitivity than Chandra for extended sources. AXIS has a rapid repointing
response with operations similar to Swift, but is 100 times more sensitive for
time-domain science. These capabilities open up a vast discovery space and
complement the next generation of astronomical observatories. A
high-spectral-resolution mission (Athena) operating at the same time as a
high-angular-resolution mission (AXIS) greatly increases the range of
scientific discovery. AXIS will use lightweight X-ray optics made of thin
single-crystal silicon mirrors developed at NASA Goddard. The detector array
builds on a long legacy of X-ray CCD and provides improved photon localization,
much faster readout time, and broader energy band. The estimated mission costs
are consistent with the $1B Probe mission cost guideline.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04424v2
Electromagnetic probes of primordial black holes as dark matter
The LIGO discoveries have rekindled suggestions that primordial black holes
(BHs) may constitute part to all of the dark matter (DM) in the Universe. Such
suggestions came from 1) the observed merger rate of the BHs, 2) their unusual
masses, 3) their low/zero spins, and 4) also from the independently uncovered
cosmic infrared background (CIB) fluctuations signal of high amplitude and
coherence with unresolved cosmic X-ray background (CXB). Here we summarize the
prospects to resolve this important issue with electromagnetic observations
using the instruments and tools expected in the 2020's. These prospects appear
promising to make significant, and potentially critical, advances. We
demonstrate that in the next decade, new space- and ground-borne
electromagnetic instruments, combined with concurrent theoretical efforts,
should shed critical light on the long-considered link between primordial BHs
and DM. Specifically the new data and methodologies under this program will
involve: I) Probing with high precision the spatial spectrum of
source-subtracted CIB with Euclid and WFIRST, and its coherence with unresolved
cosmic X-ray background using eROSITA and Athena, II) Advanced searches for
microlensing of Galactic stars by the intervening Galactic Halo BHs with OGLE,
Gaia, LSST and WFIRST, III) Supernovae (SNe) lensing in the upcoming surveys
with WFIRST, LSST and also potentially with Euclid and JWST, IV) Advanced
theoretical work to understand the details of PBH accretion and evolution and
their influence on cosmic microwave background (CMB) anisotropies in light of
the next generation CMB experiments, V) Better new samples and theoretical
understanding involving stability and properties of ultra faint dwarf galaxies,
pulsar timing, and cosmological quasar lensing.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04546v1
Planet formation: The case for large efforts on the computational side
Modern astronomy has finally been able to observe protoplanetary disks in
reasonable resolution and detail, unveiling the processes happening during
planet formation. These observed processes are understood under the framework
of disk-planet interaction, a process studied analytically and modeled
numerically for over 40 years. Long a theoreticians' game, the wealth of
observational data has been allowing for increasingly stringent tests of the
theoretical models. Modeling efforts are crucial to support the interpretation
of direct imaging analyses, not just for potential detections but also to put
meaningful upper limits on mass accretion rates and other physical quantities
in current and future large-scale surveys. This white paper addresses the
questions of what efforts on the computational side are required in the next
decade to advance our theoretical understanding, explain the observational
data, and guide new observations. We identified the nature of accretion, ab
initio planet formation, early evolution, and circumplanetary disks as major
fields of interest in computational planet formation. We recommend that
modelers relax the approximations of alpha-viscosity and isothermal equations
of state, on the grounds that these models use flawed assumptions, even if they
give good visual qualitative agreement with observations. We similarly
recommend that population synthesis move away from 1D hydrodynamics. The
computational resources to reach these goals should be developed during the
next decade, through improvements in algorithms and the hardware for hybrid
CPU/GPU clusters. Coupled with high angular resolution and great line
sensitivity in ground based interferometers, ELTs and JWST, these advances in
computational efforts should allow for large strides in the field in the next
decade.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04553v1
Gravity and Light: Combining Gravitational Wave and Electromagnetic
  Observations in the 2020s
As of today, we have directly detected exactly one source in both
gravitational waves (GWs) and electromagnetic (EM) radiation, the binary
neutron star merger GW170817, its associated gamma-ray burst GRB170817A, and
the subsequent kilonova SSS17a/AT 2017gfo. Within ten years, we will detect
hundreds of events, including new classes of events such as
neutron-star-black-hole mergers, core-collapse supernovae, and almost certainly
something completely unexpected. As we build this sample, we will explore
exotic astrophysical topics ranging from nucleosynthesis, stellar evolution,
general relativity, high-energy astrophysics, nuclear matter, to cosmology. The
discovery potential is extraordinary, and investments in this area will yield
major scientific breakthroughs. Here we outline some of the most exciting
scientific questions that can be answered by combining GW and EM observations.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04629v1
Multi-Messenger Astronomy with Extremely Large Telescopes
The field of time-domain astrophysics has entered the era of Multi-messenger
Astronomy (MMA). One key science goal for the next decade (and beyond) will be
to characterize gravitational wave (GW) and neutrino sources using the next
generation of Extremely Large Telescopes (ELTs). These studies will have a
broad impact across astrophysics, informing our knowledge of the production and
enrichment history of the heaviest chemical elements, constrain the dense
matter equation of state, provide independent constraints on cosmology,
increase our understanding of particle acceleration in shocks and jets, and
study the lives of black holes in the universe. Future GW detectors will
greatly improve their sensitivity during the coming decade, as will
near-infrared telescopes capable of independently finding kilonovae from
neutron star mergers. However, the electromagnetic counterparts to
high-frequency (LIGO/Virgo band) GW sources will be distant and faint and thus
demand ELT capabilities for characterization. ELTs will be important and
necessary contributors to an advanced and complete multi-messenger network.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04779v1
The case for a 'sub-millimeter SDSS': a 3D map of galaxy evolution to
  z~10
The Sloan Digital Sky Survey (SDSS) was revolutionary because of the
extraordinary breadth and ambition of its optical imaging and spectroscopy. We
argue that a 'sub-millimeter SDSS' - a sensitive large-area
imaging+spectroscopic survey in the sub-mm window - will revolutionize our
understanding of galaxy evolution in the early Universe. By detecting the
thermal dust continuum emission and atomic and molecular line emission of
galaxies out to z~10 it will be possible to measure the redshifts, star
formation rates, dust and gas content of hundreds of thousands of high-z
galaxies down to ~L*. Many of these galaxies will have counterparts visible in
the deep optical imaging of the Large Synoptic Survey Telescope. This 3D map of
galaxy evolution will span the peak epoch of galaxy formation all the way back
to cosmic dawn, measuring the co-evolution of the star formation rate density
and molecular gas content of galaxies, tracking the production of metals and
charting the growth of large-scale structure.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04944v1
"SZ spectroscopy" in the coming decade: Galaxy cluster cosmology and
  astrophysics in the submillimeter
Sunyaev-Zeldovich (SZ) effects were first proposed in the 1970s as tools to
identify the X-ray emitting hot gas inside massive clusters of galaxies and
obtain their velocities relative to the cosmic microwave background (CMB). Yet
it is only within the last decade that they have begun to significantly impact
astronomical research. Thanks to the rapid developments in CMB instrumentation,
measurement of the dominant thermal signature of the SZ effects has become a
routine tool to find and characterize large samples of galaxy clusters and to
seek deeper understanding of several important astrophysical processes via
high-resolution imaging studies of many targets. With the notable exception of
the Planck satellite and a few combinations of ground-based observatories, much
of this "SZ revolution" has happened in the photometric mode, where
observations are made at one or two frequencies in the millimeter regime to
maximize the cluster detection significance and minimize the foregrounds.
Still, there is much more to learn from detailed and systematic analyses of the
SZ spectra across multiple wavelengths, specifically in the submillimeter (>300
GHz) domain. The goal of this Science White Paper is to highlight this
particular aspect of SZ research, point out what new and potentially
groundbreaking insights can be obtained from these studies, and emphasize why
the coming decade can be a golden era for SZ spectral measurements.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05110v1
Simultaneous Measurements of Star Formation and Supermassive Black Hole
  Growth in Galaxies
Galaxies grow their supermassive black holes in concert with their stars,
although the relationship between these major galactic components is poorly
understood. Observations of the cosmic growth of stars and black holes in
galaxies suffer from disjoint samples and the strong effects of dust
attenuation. The thermal infrared holds incredible potential for simultaneously
measuring both the star formation and black hole accretion rates in large
samples of galaxies covering a wide range of physical conditions. Spitzer
demonstrated this potential at low redshift, and by observing some of the most
luminous galaxies at z~2. JWST will apply these methods to normal galaxies at
these epochs, but will not be able to generate large spectroscopic samples or
access the thermal infrared at high-redshift. An order of magnitude gap in our
wavelength coverage will persist between JWST and ALMA. A large, cold infrared
telescope can fill this gap to determine when (in cosmic time), and where
(within the cosmic web), stars and black holes co-evolve, by measuring these
processes simultaneously in statistically complete and unbiased samples of
galaxies to z>8. A next-generation radio interferometer will have the
resolution and sensitivity to measure star-formation and nuclear accretion in
even the dustiest galaxies. Together, the thermal infrared and radio can
uniquely determine how stars and supermassive blackholes co-evolve in galaxies
over cosmic time.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.06527v1
On the observability of individual Population III stars and their
  stellar-mass black hole accretion disks through cluster caustic transits
Recent near-IR power-spectra and panchromatic Extragalactic Background Light
measurements provide upper limits on the near-IR surface brightness (SB>31
mag/arcsec^2) that may come from Pop III stars and accretion disks around
resulting stellar-mass black holes (BHs) in the epoch of First Light (z=7-17).
Physical parameters for zero metallicity Pop III stars at z>7 can be estimated
from MESA stellar evolution models through helium-depletion, and for BH
accretion disks from quasar microlensing results and multicolor accretion
models. Second-generation stars can form at higher multiplicity, so that BH
accretion disks may be fed by Roche-lobe overflow from lower-mass companions in
their AGB stage. The near-IR SB constraints can be used to calculate the number
of caustic transits behind lensing clusters that JWST and the 25~39 m
ground-based telescopes may detect for both Pop III stars and stellar mass BH
accretion disks. Because Pop III stars and stellar mass BH accretion disks have
sizes of a few x 10^-11 arcsec at z>7, typical caustic magnifications can be
mu=10^4~10^5, with rise times of hours and decline times of < 1 year for
cluster transverse velocities of v<1000 km/s. Microlensing by intracluster
medium objects can modify transit magnifications, and lengthen visibility
times. Depending on BH masses, accretion-disk radii and feeding efficiencies,
stellar-mass BH accretion-disk caustic transits could outnumber those from Pop
III stars. To observe Pop III caustic transits directly may require monitoring
3~30 lensing clusters to AB< 29 mag over a decade or more. Such a program must
be started with JWST in Cycle 1, and -- depending on the role of microlensing
in the Intra Cluster Light -- should be continued for decades with the GMT and
TMT, where JWST and the ground-based telescopes each will play a unique and
strongly complementary role.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.06853v1
Reconstructing Extreme Space Weather from Planet Hosting Stars
The field of exoplanetary science is making rapid progress both in
statistical studies of exoplanet properties as well as in individual
characterization. As space missions provide an emerging picture of formation
and evolution of exoplanetary systems, the search for habitable worlds becomes
one of the fundamental issues to address. To tackle such a complex challenge,
we need to specify the conditions favorable for the origin, development and
sustainment of life as we know it. This requires the understanding of global
(astrospheric) and local (atmospheric, surface and internal) environments of
exoplanets in the framework of the physical processes of the interaction
between evolving planet-hosting stars along with exoplanetary evolution over
geological timescales, and the resulting impact on climate and habitability of
exoplanets. Feedbacks between astrophysical, physico-chemical atmospheric and
geological processes can only be understood through interdisciplinary studies
with the incorporation of progress in heliophysics, astrophysics, planetary,
Earth sciences, astrobiology, and the origin of life communities. The
assessment of the impacts of host stars on the climate and habitability of
terrestrial (exo)planets and potential exomoons around them may significantly
modify the extent and the location of the habitable zone and provide new
directions for searching for signatures of life. Thus, characterization of
stellar ionizing outputs becomes an important task for further understanding
the extent of habitability in the universe. The goal of this white paper is to
identify and describe promising key research goals to aid the theoretical
characterization and observational detection of ionizing radiation from
quiescent and flaring upper atmospheres of planet hosts as well as properties
of stellar coronal mass ejections and stellar energetic particle events.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.08185v1
Masses and Distances of Planetary Microlens Systems with High Angular
  Resolution Imaging
Microlensing is the only method that can detect and measure mass of wide
orbit, low mass, solar system analog exoplanets. Mass measurements of such
planets would yield massive science on planet formation, exoplanet
demographics, free floating planets, planet frequencies towards the galaxy.
High res follow-up observations of past microlens targets provide a mass
measurement of microlens planets and hosts at an uncertainty of <20%. This will
be primary method for mass measurement with WFIRST. We advocate for the fact
that high resolution observations with AO, HST and JWST(in future) remain
necessary in coming decade to develop the methods, to determine the field and
filter selection, understand the systematics and to develop a robust pipeline
to release high quality data products from WFIRST microlensing survey such that
the astronomy community can promptly engage in the science. We also support
future high res obs with US ELTs with advanced Laser AO systems in context of
enhancing the science return of WFIRST microlensing survey.
  We endorse the 2018 Exoplanet Science Strategy report published by the
National Academy. This white paper extends and complements the material
presented therein. In particular, this white paper supports the recommendation
of the National Academy Exoplanet Science Strategy report that: NASA should
launch WFIRST to conduct its microlensing survey of distant planets and to
demonstrate the technique of coronagraphic spectroscopy on exoplanet targets.
This white paper also supports to the finding from that report which states "A
number of activities, including precursor and concurrent observations using
ground- and space-based facilities, would optimize the scientific yield of the
WFIRST microlensing survey."

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.08219v1
The Scientific Context of WFIRST Microlensing in the 2020s
[abridged] WFIRST is uniquely capable of finding planets with masses as small
as Mars at separations comparable to Jupiter, i.e., beyond the current ice
lines of their stars. These planets fall between the close-in planets found by
Kepler and the wide separation gas giants seen by direct imaging and ice giants
inferred from ALMA observations. Furthermore, the smallest planets WFIRST can
detect are smaller than the planets probed by RV and Gaia at comparable
separations. Interpreting planet populations to infer the underlying formation
and evolutionary processes requires combining results from multiple detection
methods to measure the full variation of planets as a function of planet size,
orbital separation, and host star mass. Microlensing is the only way to find
planets from 0.5 to 5M_E at 1 to 5au. The case for a microlensing survey from
space has not changed in the past 20 yrs: space allows wide-field
diffraction-limited observations that resolve main-sequence stars in the bulge,
which allows the detection and characterization of the smallest signals
including those from planets with masses at least as small as Mars. What has
changed is that ground-based (GB) microlensing is reaching its limits,
underscoring the scientific necessity for a space-based survey. GB microlensing
has found a break in the mass-ratio distribution at about a Neptune, implying
that these are the most common microlensing planet and that planets smaller
than this are rare. However, GB microlensing reaches its detection limits only
slightly below the observed break. WFIRST will measure the shape of the
mass-ratio function below the break by finding numerous smaller planets: 500
Neptunes, 600 gas giants, 200 Earths, and planets as small as 0.1M_E. Because
it will also measure host masses and distances, WFIRST will also track the
behavior of the planet distribution as a function of separation and host star
mass.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.08579v1
Electromagnetic Window into the Dawn of Black Holes
Massive 10^6-10^10 Msun black holes (BHs) are ubiquitous in local galactic
nuclei. They were common by the time the Universe is several Gyr old, and many
of them were in place within the first 1~Gyr after the Big Bang. Their quick
assembly has been attributed to mechanisms such as the rapid collapse of gas
into the nuclei of early protogalaxies, accretion and mergers of stellar-mass
BHs accompanying structure formation at early times, and the runaway collapse
of early, ultra-dense stellar clusters. The origin of the early massive BHs
remains an intriguing and long-standing unsolved puzzle in astrophysics. Here
we discuss strategies for discerning between BH seeding models using
electromagnetic observations. We argue that the most direct answers will be
obtained through detection of BHs with masses M<10^5 Msun at redshifts z>10,
where we expect them to first form. Reaching out to these redshifts and down to
these masses is crucial, because BHs are expected to lose the memory of their
initial assembly by the time they grow well above 10^5 Msun and are
incorporated into higher-mass galaxies. The best way to detect 10^4-10^5 Msun
BHs at high redshifts is by a sensitive X-ray survey. Critical constraining
power is augmented by establishing the properties and the environments of their
host galaxies in deep optical/IR imaging surveys. Required OIR data can be
obtained with the JWST and WFIRST missions. The required X-ray flux limits
(down to 10^{-19} erg/s/cm^2) are accessible only with a next-generation X-ray
observatory which has both high (sub-1") angular resolution and high
throughput. A combination of deep X-ray and OIR surveys will be capable of
probing several generic markers of the BH seed scenarios, and resolving the
long-stanging puzzle of their origin. These electromagnetic observations are
also highly synergistic with the information from LISA on high-z BH mergers.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.08659v1
The evolution of the cosmic molecular gas density
One of the last missing pieces in the puzzle of galaxy formation and
evolution through cosmic history is a detailed picture of the role of the cold
gas supply in the star-formation process. Cold gas is the fuel for star
formation, and thus regulates the buildup of stellar mass, both through the
amount of material present through a galaxy's gas mass fraction, and through
the efficiency at which it is converted to stars. Over the last decade,
important progress has been made in understanding the relative importance of
these two factors along with the role of feedback, and the first measurements
of the volume density of cold gas out to redshift 4, (the "cold gas history of
the Universe") has been obtained. To match the precision of measurements of the
star formation and black-hole accretion histories over the coming decades, a
two orders of magnitude improvement in molecular line survey speeds is required
compared to what is possible with current facilities. Possible pathways towards
such large gains include significant upgrades to current facilities like ALMA
by 2030 (and beyond), and eventually the construction of a new generation of
radio-to-millimeter wavelength facilities, such as the next generation Very
Large Array (ngVLA) concept.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.08986v1
"Auxiliary" Science with the WFIRST Microlensing Survey
The Wide Field Infrared Survey Telescope (WFIRST) will monitor $\sim 2$
deg$^2$ toward the Galactic bulge in a wide ($\sim 1-2~\mu$m) W149 filter at
15-minute cadence with exposure times of $\sim$50s for 6 seasons of 72 days
each, for a total $\sim$41,000 exposures taken over $\sim$432 days, spread over
the 5-year prime mission. This will be one of the deepest exposures of the sky
ever taken, reaching a photon-noise photometric precision of 0.01 mag per
exposure and collecting a total of $\sim 10^9$ photons over the course of the
survey for a W149$_{\rm AB}\sim 21$ star. Of order $4 \times 10^7$ stars will
be monitored with W149$_{\rm AB}$<21, and 10$^8$ stars with W145$_{\rm AB}$<23.
The WFIRST microlensing survey will detect $\sim$54,000 microlensing events, of
which roughly 1% ($\sim$500) will be due to isolated black holes, and $\sim$3%
($\sim$1600) will be due to isolated neutron stars. It will be sensitive to
(effectively) isolated compact objects with masses as low as the mass of Pluto,
thereby enabling a measurement of the compact object mass function over 10
orders of magnitude. Assuming photon-noise limited precision, it will detect
$\sim 10^5$ transiting planets with sizes as small as $\sim 2~R_\oplus$,
perform asteroseismology of $\sim 10^6$ giant stars, measure the proper motions
to $\sim 0.3\%$ and parallaxes to $\sim 10\%$ for the $\sim 6 \times 10^6$ disk
and bulge stars in the survey area, and directly detect $\sim 5 \times 10^3$
Trans-Neptunian objects (TNOs) with diameters down to $\sim 10$ km, as well as
detect $\sim 10^3$ occulations of stars by TNOs during the survey. All of this
science will completely serendipitous, i.e., it will not require modifications
of the WFIRST optimal microlensing survey design. Allowing for some minor
deviation from the optimal design, such as monitoring the Galactic center,
would enable an even broader range of transformational science.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.11130v1
Imprint of Drivers of Galaxy Formation in the Circumgalactic Medium
The majority of baryons reside beyond the optical extent of a galaxy in the
circumgalactic and intergalactic media (CGM/IGM). Gaseous halos are
inextricably linked to the appearance of their host galaxies through a complex
story of accretion, feedback, and continual recycling. The energetic processes,
which define the state of gas in the CGM, are the same ones that 1) regulate
stellar growth so that it is not over-efficient, and 2) create the diversity of
today's galaxy colors, SFRs, and morphologies spanning Hubble's Tuning Fork
Diagram. They work in concert to set the speed of growth on the star-forming
Main Sequence, transform a galaxy across the Green Valley, and maintain a
galaxy's quenched appearance on the Red Sequence. Most baryons in halos more
massive than 10^12 Msolar along with their high-energy physics and dynamics
remain invisible because that gas is heated above the UV ionization states. We
argue that information on many of the essential drivers of galaxy evolution is
primarily contained in this "missing" hot gas phase. Completing the picture of
galaxy formation requires uncovering the physical mechanisms behind stellar and
SMBH feedback driving mass, metals, and energy into the CGM. By opening
galactic hot halos to new wavebands, we not only obtain fossil imprints of >13
Gyrs of evolution, but observe on-going hot-mode accretion, the deposition of
superwind outflows into the CGM, and the re-arrangement of baryons by SMBH
feedback. A description of the flows of mass, metals, and energy will only be
complete by observing the thermodynamic states, chemical compositions,
structure, and dynamics of T>=10^6 K halos. These measurements are uniquely
possible with a next-generation X-ray observatory if it provides the
sensitivity to detect faint CGM emission, spectroscopic power to measure
absorption lines and gas motions, and high spatial resolution to resolve
structures.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.12228v1
Ultra-heavy cosmic-ray science--Are r-process nuclei in the cosmic rays
  produced in supernovae or binary neutron star mergers?
The recent detection of 60Fe in the cosmic rays provides conclusive evidence
that there is a recently synthesized component (few MY) in the GCRs (Binns et
al. 2016). In addition, these nuclei must have been synthesized and accelerated
in supernovae near the solar system, probably in the Sco-Cen OB association
subgroups, which are about 100 pc distant from the Sun. Recent theoretical work
on the production of r-process nuclei appears to indicate that it is difficult
for SNe to produce the solar system abundances relative to iron of r-process
elements with high atomic number (Z), including the actinides (Th, U, Np, Pu,
and Cm). Instead, it is believed by many that the heaviest r-process nuclei, or
perhaps even all r-process nuclei, are produced in binary neutron star mergers.
Since we now know that there is at least a component of the GCRs that has been
recently synthesized and accelerated, models of r-process production by SNe and
BNSM can be tested by measuring the relative abundances of these ultra-heavy
r-process nuclei, and especially the actinides, since they are radioactive and
provide clocks that give the time interval from nucleosynthesis to detection at
Earth. Since BNSM are believed to be much less frequent in our galaxy than SNe
(roughly 1000 times less frequent, the ratios of the actinides, each with their
own half-life, will enable a clear determination of whether the heaviest
r-process nuclei are synthesized in SNe or in BNSM. In addition, the r-process
nuclei for the charge range from 34 to 82 can be used to constrain models of
r-process production in BNSM and SNe. Thus, GCRs become a multi-messenger
component in the study of BNSM and SNe.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1905.04275v1
Directly Imaging Rocky Planets from the Ground
Over the past three decades instruments on the ground and in space have
discovered thousands of planets outside the solar system. These observations
have given rise to an astonishingly detailed picture of the demographics of
short-period planets, but are incomplete at longer periods where both the
sensitivity of transit surveys and radial velocity signals plummet. Even more
glaring is that the spectra of planets discovered with these indirect methods
are either inaccessible (radial velocity detections) or only available for a
small subclass of transiting planets with thick, clear atmospheres. Direct
detection can be used to discover and characterize the atmospheres of planets
at intermediate and wide separations, including non-transiting exoplanets.
Today, a small number of exoplanets have been directly imaged, but they
represent only a rare class of young, self-luminous super-Jovian-mass objects
orbiting tens to hundreds of AU from their host stars. Atmospheric
characterization of planets in the <5 AU regime, where radial velocity (RV)
surveys have revealed an abundance of other worlds, is technically feasible
with 30-m class apertures in combination with an advanced AO system,
coronagraph, and suite of spectrometers and imagers. There is a vast range of
unexplored science accessible through astrometry, photometry, and spectroscopy
of rocky planets, ice giants, and gas giants. In this whitepaper we will focus
on one of the most ambitious science goals --- detecting for the first time
habitable-zone rocky (<1.6 R_Earth) exoplanets in reflected light around nearby
M-dwarfs

http://arxiv.org/abs/1905.07064v1
The Need for Laboratory Measurements and Ab Initio Studies to Aid
  Understanding of Exoplanetary Atmospheres
We are now on a clear trajectory for improvements in exoplanet observations
that will revolutionize our ability to characterize their atmospheric
structure, composition, and circulation, from gas giants to rocky planets.
However, exoplanet atmospheric models capable of interpreting the upcoming
observations are often limited by insufficiencies in the laboratory and
theoretical data that serve as critical inputs to atmospheric physical and
chemical tools. Here we provide an up-to-date and condensed description of
areas where laboratory and/or ab initio investigations could fill critical gaps
in our ability to model exoplanet atmospheric opacities, clouds, and chemistry,
building off a larger 2016 white paper, and endorsed by the NAS Exoplanet
Science Strategy report. Now is the ideal time for progress in these areas, but
this progress requires better access to, understanding of, and training in the
production of spectroscopic data as well as a better insight into chemical
reaction kinetics both thermal and radiation-induced at a broad range of
temperatures. Given that most published efforts have emphasized relatively
Earth-like conditions, we can expect significant and enlightening discoveries
as emphasis moves to the exotic atmospheres of exoplanets.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1906.10134v2
CMB-HD: An Ultra-Deep, High-Resolution Millimeter-Wave Survey Over Half
  the Sky
A millimeter-wave survey over half the sky, that spans frequencies in the
range of 30 to 350 GHz, and that is both an order of magnitude deeper and of
higher-resolution than currently funded surveys would yield an enormous gain in
understanding of both fundamental physics and astrophysics. By providing such a
deep, high-resolution millimeter-wave survey (about 0.5 uK-arcmin noise and 15
arcsecond resolution at 150 GHz), CMB-HD will enable major advances. It will
allow 1) the use of gravitational lensing of the primordial microwave
background to map the distribution of matter on small scales (k~10/hMpc), which
probes dark matter particle properties. It will also allow 2) measurements of
the thermal and kinetic Sunyaev-Zel'dovich effects on small scales to map the
gas density and gas pressure profiles of halos over a wide field, which probes
galaxy evolution and cluster astrophysics. In addition, CMB-HD would allow us
to cross critical thresholds in fundamental physics: 3) ruling out or detecting
any new, light (< 0.1eV), thermal particles, which could potentially be the
dark matter, and 4) testing a wide class of multi-field models that could
explain an epoch of inflation in the early Universe. Such a survey would also
5) monitor the transient sky by mapping the full observing region every few
days, which opens a new window on gamma-ray bursts, novae, fast radio bursts,
and variable active galactic nuclei. Moreover, CMB-HD would 6) provide a census
of planets, dwarf planets, and asteroids in the outer Solar System, and 7)
enable the detection of exo-Oort clouds around other solar systems, shedding
light on planet formation. CMB-HD will deliver this survey in 5 years of
observing half the sky, using two new 30-meter-class off-axis cross-Dragone
telescopes to be located at Cerro Toco in the Atacama Desert. The telescopes
will field about 2.4 million detectors (600,000 pixels) in total.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1907.05383v1
IDEAS: Immersive Dome Experiences for Accelerating Science
Astrophysics lies at the crossroads of big datasets (such as the Large
Synoptic Survey Telescope and Gaia), open source software to visualize and
interpret high dimensional datasets (such as Glue, WorldWide Telescope, and
OpenSpace), and uniquely skilled software engineers who bridge data science and
research fields. At the same time, more than 4,000 planetariums across the
globe immerse millions of visitors in scientific data. We have identified the
potential for critical synergy across data, software, hardware, locations, and
content that -- if prioritized over the next decade -- will drive discovery in
astronomical research. Planetariums can and should be used for the advancement
of scientific research. Current facilities such as the Hayden Planetarium in
New York City, Adler Planetarium in Chicago, Morrison Planetarium in San
Francisco, the Iziko Planetarium and Digital Dome Research Consortium in Cape
Town, and Visualization Center C in Norrkoping are already developing software
which ingests catalogs of astronomical and multi-disciplinary data critical for
exploration research primarily for the purpose of creating scientific
storylines for the general public. We propose a transformative model whereby
scientists become the audience and explorers in planetariums, utilizing
software for their own investigative purposes. In this manner, research
benefits from the authentic and unique experience of data immersion contained
in an environment bathed in context and equipped for collaboration.
Consequently, in this white paper we argue that over the next decade the
research astronomy community should partner with planetariums to create
visualization-based research opportunities for the field. Realizing this vision
will require new investments in software and human capital.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1907.07195v1
FOBOS: A Next-Generation Spectroscopic Facility at the W. M. Keck
  Observatory
High-multiplex and deep spectroscopic follow-up of upcoming panoramic
deep-imaging surveys like LSST, Euclid, and WFIRST is a widely recognized and
increasingly urgent necessity. No current or planned facility at a U.S.
observatory meets the sensitivity, multiplex, and rapid-response time needed to
exploit these future datasets. FOBOS, the Fiber-Optic Broadband Optical
Spectrograph, is a near-term fiber-based facility that addresses these
spectroscopic needs by optimizing depth over area and exploiting the aperture
advantage of the existing 10m Keck II Telescope. The result is an instrument
with a uniquely blue-sensitive wavelength range (0.31-1.0 um) at R~3500,
high-multiplex (1800 fibers), and a factor 1.7 greater survey speed and
order-of-magnitude greater sampling density than Subaru's Prime Focus
Spectrograph (PFS). In the era of panoramic deep imaging, FOBOS will excel at
building the deep, spectroscopic reference data sets needed to interpret vast
imaging data. At the same time, its flexible focal plane, including a mode with
25 deployable integral-field units (IFUs) across a 20 arcmin diameter field,
enables an expansive range of scientific investigations. Its key programmatic
areas include (1) nested stellar-parameter training sets that enable studies of
the Milky Way and M31 halo sub-structure, as well as local group dwarf
galaxies, (2) a comprehensive picture of galaxy formation thanks to detailed
mapping of the baryonic environment at z~2 and statistical linking of evolving
populations to the present day, and (3) dramatic enhancements in cosmological
constraints via precise photometric redshifts and determined redshift
distributions. In combination with Keck I instrumentation, FOBOS also provides
instant access to medium-resolution spectroscopy for transient sources with
full coverage from the UV to the K-band.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1907.07742v2
Enabling the next generation of scientific discoveries by embracing
  photonic technologies
The fields of Astronomy and Astrophysics are technology limited, where the
advent and application of new technologies to astronomy usher in a flood of
discoveries altering our understanding of the Universe (e.g., recent cases
include LIGO and the GRAVITY instrument at the VLTI). Currently, the field of
astronomical spectroscopy is rapidly approaching an impasse: the size and cost
of instruments, especially multi-object and integral field spectrographs for
extremely large telescopes (ELTs), are pushing the limits of what is feasible,
requiring optical components at the very edge of achievable size and
performance. For these reasons, astronomers are increasingly looking for
innovative solutions like photonic technologies that promote instrument
miniaturization and simplification, while providing superior performance.
  Astronomers have long been aware of the potential of photonic technologies.
The goal of this white paper is to draw attention to key photonic technologies
and developments over the past two decades and demonstrate there is new
momentum in this arena. We outline where the most critical efforts should be
focused over the coming decade in order to move towards realizing a fully
photonic instrument. A relatively small investment in this technology will
advance astronomical photonics to a level where it can reliably be used to
solve challenging instrument design limitations. For the benefit of both ground
and space borne instruments alike, an endorsement from the National Academy of
Sciences decadal survey will ensure that such solutions are set on a path to
their full scientific exploitation, which may one day address a broad range of
science cases outlined in the KSPs.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1907.11171v1
Astro2020 APC White Paper: The MegaMapper: a z > 2 spectroscopic
  instrument for the study of Inflation and Dark Energy
MegaMapper is a proposed ground-based experiment to measure Inflation
parameters and Dark Energy from galaxy redshifts at 2<z<5. A 6.5-m Magellan
telescope will be coupled with DESI spectrographs to achieve multiplexing of
20,000. MegaMapper would be located at Las Campanas Observatory to fully access
LSST imaging for target selection.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1907.12559v1
Packed Ultra-wideband Mapping Array (PUMA): A Radio Telescope for
  Cosmology and Transients
PUMA is a proposal for an ultra-wideband, low-resolution and transit
interferometric radio telescope operating at $200-1100\,\mathrm{MHz}$. Its
design is driven by six science goals which span three science themes: the
physics of dark energy (measuring the expansion history and growth of the
universe up to $z=6$), the physics of inflation (constraining primordial
non-Gaussianity and primordial features) and the transient radio sky (detecting
one million fast radio bursts and following up SKA-discovered pulsars). We
propose two array configurations composed of hexagonally close-packed 6m dish
arrangements with 50% fill factor. The initial 5,000 element 'petite array' is
scientifically compelling, and can act as a demonstrator and a stepping stone
to the full 32,000 element 'full array'. Viewed as a 21cm intensity mapping
telescope, the program has the noise equivalent of a traditional spectroscopic
galaxy survey comprised of 0.6 and 2.5 billion galaxies at a comoving
wavenumber of $k=0.5\,h\mathrm{Mpc}^{-1}$ spanning the redshift range $z = 0.3
- 6$ for the petite and full configurations, respectively. At redshifts beyond
$z=2$, the 21cm technique is a uniquely powerful way of mapping the universe,
while the low-redshift range will allow for numerous cross-correlations with
existing and upcoming surveys. This program is enabled by the development of
ultra-wideband radio feeds, cost-effective dish construction methods, commodity
radio-frequency electronics driven by the telecommunication industry and the
emergence of sufficient computing power to facilitate real-time signal
processing that exploits the full potential of massive radio arrays. The
project has an estimated construction cost of 55 and 330 million FY19 USD for
the petite and full array configurations. Including R&D, design, operations and
science analysis, the cost rises to 125 and 600 million FY19 USD, respectively.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1908.03623v1
High-resolution Infrared Spectrograph for Exoplanet Characterization
  with the Keck and Thirty Meter Telescopes
HISPEC (High-resolution Infrared Spectrograph for Exoplanet Characterization)
is a proposed diffraction-limited spectrograph for the W.M. Keck Observatory,
and a pathfinder for the MODHIS facility project (Multi-Object
Diffraction-limited High-resolution Infrared Spectrograph) on the Thirty Meter
Telescope. HISPEC/MODHIS builds on diffraction-limited spectrograph designs
which rely on adaptively corrected single-mode fiber feeds. Seeing-limited
high-resolution spectrographs, by virtue of the conservation of beam etendue,
grow in volume following a D^3 power law (D is the telescope diameter), and are
subject to daunting challenges associated with their large size.
Diffraction-limited spectrographs fed by single mode fibers are decoupled from
the telescope input, and are orders of magnitude more compact and have
intrinsically stable line spread functions. Their efficiency is directly
proportional to the performance of the adaptive optics (AO) system. AO
technologies have matured rapidly over the past two decades and are baselined
for future extremely large telescopes. HISPEC/MODHIS will take R>100,000
spectra of a few objects in a 10" field-of-view sampled at the diffraction
limit (~10-50 mas), simultaneously from 0.95 to 2.4 microns (y-K). The
scientific scope ranges from exoplanet infrared precision radial velocities,
spectroscopy of transiting, close-in, and directly imaged exoplanets
(atmospheric composition and dynamics, RM effect, spin measurements, Doppler
imaging), brown dwarf characterization, stellar physics/chemistry,
proto-planetary disk kinematics/composition, Solar system, extragalactic
science, and cosmology. HISPEC/MODHIS features a compact, cost-effective design
optimized to fully exploit the existing Keck-AO and future TMT-NFIRAOS
infrastructures and boost the scientific reach of Keck Observatory and TMT soon
after first light.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1909.00070v1
ATLAS Probe: Breakthrough Science of Galaxy Evolution, Cosmology, Milky
  Way, and the Solar System
ATLAS (Astrophysics Telescope for Large Area Spectroscopy) is a concept for a
NASA probe-class space mission. It is the spectroscopic follow-up mission to
WFIRST, boosting its scientific return by obtaining deep NIR & MIR slit
spectroscopy for most of the galaxies imaged by the WFIRST High Latitude Survey
at z>0.5. ATLAS will measure accurate and precise redshifts for ~200M galaxies
out to z=7 and beyond, and deliver spectra that enable a wide range of
diagnostic studies of the physical properties of galaxies over most of cosmic
history. ATLAS and WFIRST together will produce a definitive 3D map of the
Universe over 2000 sq deg. ATLAS Science Goals are: (1) Discover how galaxies
have evolved in the cosmic web of dark matter from cosmic dawn through the peak
era of galaxy assembly. (2) Discover the nature of cosmic acceleration. (3)
Probe the Milky Way's dust-enshrouded regions, reaching the far side of our
Galaxy. (4) Discover the bulk compositional building blocks of planetesimals
formed in the outer Solar System. These flow down to the ATLAS Scientific
Objectives: (1A) Trace the relation between galaxies and dark matter with less
than 10% shot noise on relevant scales at 1<z<7. (1B) Probe the physics of
galaxy evolution at 1<z<7. (2) Obtain definitive measurements of dark energy
and tests of General Relativity. (3) Measure the 3D structure and stellar
content of the inner Milky Way to a distance of 25 kpc. (4) Detect and quantify
the composition of 3,000 planetesimals in the outer Solar System. ATLAS is a
1.5m telescope with a FoV of 0.4 sq deg, and uses Digital Micro-mirror Devices
(DMDs) as slit selectors. It has a spectroscopic resolution of R = 1000, and a
wavelength range of 1-4 microns. ATLAS has an unprecedented spectroscopic
capability based on DMDs, with a spectroscopic multiplex factor ~6,000. ATLAS
is designed to fit within the NASA probe-class space mission cost envelope.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1909.02587v1
The CCAT-Prime Submillimeter Observatory
The Cerro Chajnantor Atacama Telescope-prime (CCAT-prime) is a new 6-m,
off-axis, low-emissivity, large field-of-view submillimeter telescope scheduled
for first light in the last quarter of 2021. In summary, (a) CCAT-prime
uniquely combines a large field-of-view (up to 8-deg), low emissivity telescope
(< 2%) and excellent atmospheric transmission (5600-m site) to achieve
unprecedented survey capability in the submillimeter. (b) Over five years,
CCAT-prime first generation science will address the physics of star formation,
galaxy evolution, and galaxy cluster formation; probe the re-ionization of the
Universe; improve constraints on new particle species; and provide for improved
removal of dust foregrounds to aid the search for primordial gravitational
waves. (c) The Observatory is being built with non-federal funds (~ \$40M in
private and international investments). Public funding is needed for
instrumentation (~ \$8M) and operations (\$1-2M/yr). In return, the community
will be able to participate in survey planning and gain access to curated data
sets. (d) For second generation science, CCAT-prime will be uniquely positioned
to contribute high-frequency capabilities to the next generation of CMB surveys
in partnership with the CMB-S4 and/or the Simons Observatory projects or
revolutionize wide-field, sub-millimetter line intensity mapping surveys.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1910.08376v1
The Growing Importance of a Tech Savvy Astronomy and Astrophysics
  Workforce
Fundamental coding and software development skills are increasingly necessary
for success in nearly every aspect of astronomical and astrophysical research
as large surveys and high resolution simulations become the norm. However,
professional training in these skills is inaccessible or impractical for many
members of our community. Students and professionals alike have been expected
to acquire these skills on their own, apart from formal classroom curriculum or
on-the-job training. Despite the recognized importance of these skills, there
is little opportunity to develop them - even for interested researchers. To
ensure a workforce capable of taking advantage of the computational resources
and the large volumes of data coming in the next decade, we must identify and
support ways to make software development training widely accessible to
community members, regardless of affiliation or career level. To develop and
sustain a technology capable astronomical and astrophysical workforce, we
recommend that agencies make funding and other resources available in order to
encourage, support and, in some cases, require progress on necessary training,
infrastructure and policies. In this white paper, we focus on recommendations
for how funding agencies can lead in the promotion of activities to support the
astronomy and astrophysical workforce in the 2020s.

http://arxiv.org/abs/2002.12739v1
The Case for Probe-class NASA Astrophysics Missions
Astrophysics spans an enormous range of questions on scales from individual
planets to the entire cosmos. To address the richness of 21st century
astrophysics requires a corresponding richness of telescopes spanning all bands
and all messengers. Much scientific benefit comes from having the
multi-wavelength capability available at the same time. Most of these bands,or
measurement sensitivities, require space-based missions. Historically, NASA has
addressed this need for breadth with a small number of flagship-class missions
and a larger number of Explorer missions. While the Explorer program continues
to flourish, there is a large gap between Explorers and strategic missions. A
fortunate combination of new astrophysics technologies with new, high capacity,
low dollar-per-kg to orbit launchers, and new satellite buses allow for cheaper
missions with capabilities approaching strategic mission levels. NASA has
recognized these developments by calling for Probe-class mission ideas for
mission studies, spanning most of the electromagnetic spectrum from GeV
gamma-rays to the far infrared, and the new messengers of neutrinos and
ultra-high energy cosmic rays. The key insight from the Probes exercise is that
order-of-magnitude advances in science performance metrics are possible across
the board for initial total cost estimates in the range 500M-1B dollars.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1907.08284v1
The Simons Observatory: Astro2020 Decadal Project Whitepaper
The Simons Observatory (SO) is a ground-based cosmic microwave background
(CMB) experiment sited on Cerro Toco in the Atacama Desert in Chile that
promises to provide breakthrough discoveries in fundamental physics, cosmology,
and astrophysics. Supported by the Simons Foundation, the Heising-Simons
Foundation, and with contributions from collaborating institutions, SO will see
first light in 2021 and start a five year survey in 2022. SO has 287
collaborators from 12 countries and 53 institutions, including 85 students and
90 postdocs.
  The SO experiment in its currently funded form ('SO-Nominal') consists of
three 0.4 m Small Aperture Telescopes (SATs) and one 6 m Large Aperture
Telescope (LAT). Optimized for minimizing systematic errors in polarization
measurements at large angular scales, the SATs will perform a deep,
degree-scale survey of 10% of the sky to search for the signature of primordial
gravitational waves. The LAT will survey 40% of the sky with arc-minute
resolution. These observations will measure (or limit) the sum of neutrino
masses, search for light relics, measure the early behavior of Dark Energy, and
refine our understanding of the intergalactic medium, clusters and the role of
feedback in galaxy formation.
  With up to ten times the sensitivity and five times the angular resolution of
the Planck satellite, and roughly an order of magnitude increase in mapping
speed over currently operating ("Stage 3") experiments, SO will measure the CMB
temperature and polarization fluctuations to exquisite precision in six
frequency bands from 27 to 280 GHz. SO will rapidly advance CMB science while
informing the design of future observatories such as CMB-S4.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1902.05569v1
The Wide Field Infrared Survey Telescope: 100 Hubbles for the 2020s
The Wide Field Infrared Survey Telescope (WFIRST) is a 2.4m space telescope
with a 0.281 deg^2 field of view for near-IR imaging and slitless spectroscopy
and a coronagraph designed for > 10^8 starlight suppresion. As background
information for Astro2020 white papers, this article summarizes the current
design and anticipated performance of WFIRST. While WFIRST does not have the UV
imaging/spectroscopic capabilities of the Hubble Space Telescope, for wide
field near-IR surveys WFIRST is hundreds of times more efficient. Some of the
most ambitious multi-cycle HST Treasury programs could be executed as routine
General Observer (GO) programs on WFIRST. The large area and time-domain
surveys planned for the cosmology and exoplanet microlensing programs will
produce extraordinarily rich data sets that enable an enormous range of
Archival Research (AR) investigations. Requirements for the coronagraph are
defined based on its status as a technology demonstration, but its expected
performance will enable unprecedented observations of nearby giant exoplanets
and circumstellar disks. WFIRST is currently in the Preliminary Design and
Technology Completion phase (Phase B), on schedule for launch in 2025, with
several of its critical components already in production.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.03035v2
STROBE-X: X-ray Timing and Spectroscopy on Dynamical Timescales from
  Microseconds to Years
We present the Spectroscopic Time-Resolving Observatory for Broadband Energy
X-rays (STROBE-X), a probe-class mission concept selected for study by NASA. It
combines huge collecting area, high throughput, broad energy coverage, and
excellent spectral and temporal resolution in a single facility. STROBE-X
offers an enormous increase in sensitivity for X-ray spectral timing, extending
these techniques to extragalactic targets for the first time. It is also an
agile mission capable of rapid response to transient events, making it an
essential X-ray partner facility in the era of time-domain, multi-wavelength,
and multi-messenger astronomy. Optimized for study of the most extreme
conditions found in the Universe, its key science objectives include: (1)
Robustly measuring mass and spin and mapping inner accretion flows across the
black hole mass spectrum, from compact stars to intermediate-mass objects to
active galactic nuclei. (2) Mapping out the full mass-radius relation of
neutron stars using an ensemble of nearly two dozen rotation-powered pulsars
and accreting neutron stars, and hence measuring the equation of state for
ultradense matter over a much wider range of densities than explored by NICER.
(3) Identifying and studying X-ray counterparts (in the post-Swift era) for
multiwavelength and multi-messenger transients in the dynamic sky through
cross-correlation with gravitational wave interferometers, neutrino
observatories, and high-cadence time-domain surveys in other electromagnetic
bands. (4) Continuously surveying the dynamic X-ray sky with a large duty cycle
and high time resolution to characterize the behavior of X-ray sources over an
unprecedentedly vast range of time scales. STROBE-X's formidable capabilities
will also enable a broad portfolio of additional science.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04218v2
Spectral Distortions of the CMB as a Probe of Inflation, Recombination,
  Structure Formation and Particle Physics
Following the pioneering observations with COBE in the early 1990s, studies
of the cosmic microwave background (CMB) have focused on temperature and
polarization anisotropies. CMB spectral distortions - tiny departures of the
CMB energy spectrum from that of a perfect blackbody - provide a second,
independent probe of fundamental physics, with a reach deep into the primordial
Universe. The theoretical foundation of spectral distortions has seen major
advances in recent years, which highlight the immense potential of this
emerging field. Spectral distortions probe a fundamental property of the
Universe - its thermal history - thereby providing additional insight into
processes within the cosmological standard model (CSM) as well as new physics
beyond. Spectral distortions are an important tool for understanding inflation
and the nature of dark matter. They shed new light on the physics of
recombination and reionization, both prominent stages in the evolution of our
Universe, and furnish critical information on baryonic feedback processes, in
addition to probing primordial correlation functions at scales inaccessible to
other tracers. In principle the range of signals is vast: many orders of
magnitude of discovery space could be explored by detailed observations of the
CMB energy spectrum. Several CSM signals are predicted and provide clear
experimental targets, some of which are already observable with present-day
technology. Confirmation of these signals would extend the reach of the CSM by
orders of magnitude in physical scale as the Universe evolves from the initial
stages to its present form. The absence of these signals would pose a huge
theoretical challenge, immediately pointing to new physics.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04409v2
Primordial Non-Gaussianity
Our current understanding of the Universe is established through the pristine
measurements of structure in the cosmic microwave background (CMB) and the
distribution and shapes of galaxies tracing the large scale structure (LSS) of
the Universe. One key ingredient that underlies cosmological observables is
that the field that sources the observed structure is assumed to be initially
Gaussian with high precision. Nevertheless, a minimal deviation from
Gaussianityis perhaps the most robust theoretical prediction of models that
explain the observed Universe; itis necessarily present even in the simplest
scenarios. In addition, most inflationary models produce far higher levels of
non-Gaussianity. Since non-Gaussianity directly probes the dynamics in the
early Universe, a detection would present a monumental discovery in cosmology,
providing clues about physics at energy scales as high as the GUT scale.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04763v1
Messengers from the Early Universe: Cosmic Neutrinos and Other Light
  Relics
The hot dense environment of the early universe is known to have produced
large numbers of baryons, photons, and neutrinos. These extreme conditions may
have also produced other long-lived species, including new light particles
(such as axions or sterile neutrinos) or gravitational waves. The gravitational
effects of any such light relics can be observed through their unique imprint
in the cosmic microwave background (CMB), the large-scale structure, and the
primordial light element abundances, and are important in determining the
initial conditions of the universe. We argue that future cosmological
observations, in particular improved maps of the CMB on small angular scales,
can be orders of magnitude more sensitive for probing the thermal history of
the early universe than current experiments. These observations offer a unique
and broad discovery space for new physics in the dark sector and beyond, even
when its effects would not be visible in terrestrial experiments or in
astrophysical environments. A detection of an excess light relic abundance
would be a clear indication of new physics and would provide the first direct
information about the universe between the times of reheating and neutrino
decoupling one second later.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05293v1
Envisioning the next decade of Galactic Center science: a laboratory for
  the study of the physics and astrophysics of supermassive black holes
As the closest example of a galactic nucleus, the Galactic center (GC)
presents an exquisite laboratory for learning about supermassive black holes
(SMBH) and their environment. We describe several exciting new research
directions that, over the next 10 years, hold the potential to answer some of
the biggest scientific questions raised in recent decades: Is General
Relativity (GR) the correct description for supermassive black holes? What is
the nature of star formation in extreme environments? How do stars and compact
objects dynamically interact with the supermassive black hole? What physical
processes drive gas accretion in low-luminosity black holes? We describe how
the high sensitivity, angular resolution, and astrometric precision offered by
the next generation of large ground-based telescopes with adaptive optics will
help us answer these questions. First, it will be possible to obtain precision
measurements of stellar orbits in the Galaxy's central potential, providing
both tests of GR in the unexplored regime near a SMBH and measurements of the
extended dark matter distribution that is predicted to exist at the GC. Second,
we will probe stellar populations at the GC to significantly lower masses than
are possible today, down to brown dwarfs. Their structure and dynamics will
provide an unprecedented view of the stellar cusp around the SMBH and will
distinguish between models of star formation in this extreme environment. This
increase in depth will also allow us to measure the currently unknown
population of compact remnants at the GC by observing their effects on luminous
sources. Third, uncertainties on the mass of and distance to the SMBH can be
improved by a factor of $\sim$10. Finally, we can also study the near-infrared
accretion onto the black hole at unprecedented sensitivity and time resolution,
which can reveal the underlying physics of black hole accretion.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.09208v1
Inflation and Dark Energy from spectroscopy at $z > 2$
The expansion of the Universe is understood to have accelerated during two
epochs: in its very first moments during a period of Inflation and much more
recently, at $z < 1$, when Dark Energy is hypothesized to drive cosmic
acceleration. The undiscovered mechanisms behind these two epochs represent
some of the most important open problems in fundamental physics. The large
cosmological volume at $2 < z < 5$, together with the ability to efficiently
target high-$z$ galaxies with known techniques, enables large gains in the
study of Inflation and Dark Energy. A future spectroscopic survey can test the
Gaussianity of the initial conditions up to a factor of ~50 better than our
current bounds, crossing the crucial theoretical threshold of
$\sigma(f_{NL}^{\rm local})$ of order unity that separates single field and
multi-field models. Simultaneously, it can measure the fraction of Dark Energy
at the percent level up to $z = 5$, thus serving as an unprecedented test of
the standard model and opening up a tremendous discovery space.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1907.07558v2
All-sky Medium Energy Gamma-ray Observatory: Exploring the Extreme
  Multimessenger Universe
The All-sky Medium Energy Gamma-ray Observatory (AMEGO) is a probe class
mission concept that will provide essential contributions to multimessenger
astrophysics in the late 2020s and beyond. AMEGO combines high sensitivity in
the 200 keV to 10 GeV energy range with a wide field of view, good spectral
resolution, and polarization sensitivity. Therefore, AMEGO is key in the study
of multimessenger astrophysical objects that have unique signatures in the
gamma-ray regime, such as neutron star mergers, supernovae, and flaring active
galactic nuclei. The order-of-magnitude improvement compared to previous MeV
missions also enables discoveries of a wide range of phenomena whose energy
output peaks in the relatively unexplored medium-energy gamma-ray band.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1911.02561v1
Neutrino astronomy with the next generation IceCube Neutrino Observatory
The past decade has welcomed the emergence of cosmic neutrinos as a new
messenger to explore the most extreme environments of the universe. The
discovery measurement of cosmic neutrinos, announced by IceCube in 2013, has
opened a new window of observation that has already resulted in new fundamental
information that holds the potential to answer key questions associated with
the high-energy universe, including: what are the sources in the PeV sky and
how do they drive particle acceleration; where are cosmic rays of extreme
energies produced, and on which paths do they propagate through the universe;
and are there signatures of new physics at TeV-PeV energies and above? The
planned advancements in neutrino telescope arrays in the next decade, in
conjunction with continued progress in broad multimessenger astrophysics,
promise to elevate the cosmic neutrino field from the discovery to the
precision era and to a survey of the sources in the neutrino sky. The planned
detector upgrades to the IceCube Neutrino Observatory, culminating in
IceCube-Gen2 (an envisaged $400M facility with anticipated operation in the
next decade, described in this white paper) are the cornerstone that will drive
the evolution of neutrino astrophysics measurements.

