http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.06136v1
Astro2020 Science White Paper: Dynamical Processes in the Planet-Forming
  Environment
The transfer of circumstellar disk mass and momentum onto the protostar and
out into the environment occurs via a variety of mechanisms including
magnetospheric accretion, jets, outflows, and disk winds. The interplay of
these processes determine both the conditions under which planet formation
occurs and the lifetime of the disk. Metallic emission lines, along with the
Balmer series of hydrogen, probe the kinematics of gas within the
planet-forming and central regions of circumstellar disks. High-spectral
resolution study of these emission lines provides critical information on mass
and momentum loss, turbulence, and disk wind origins.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04447v1
A Unique Messenger to Probe Active Galactic Nuclei: High-Energy
  Neutrinos
This Astro2020 white paper advocates for a multi-messenger approach that
combines high-energy neutrino and broad multi-wavelength electromagnetic
observations to study AGN during the coming decade. The unique capabilities of
these joint observations promise to solve several long-standing issues in our
understanding of AGN as powerful cosmic accelerators.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05475v1
The role of Active Galactic Nuclei in galaxy evolution: insights from
  space ultraviolet spectropolarimetry
This Astro2020 white paper summarizes the unknowns of active galactic nuclei
(AGN) physics that could be unveiled thanks to a new, space-born, ultraviolet
spectropolarimeter. The unique capabilities of high energy polarimetry would
help us to understand the precise mechanisms of matter and energy transfer and
supermassive black holes growth, together with the impact of AGN feedback on
galaxy evolution.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05469v1
Supermassive Black Hole Spin and Reverberation
X-ray reverberation mapping has emerged as a powerful probe of microparsec
scales around AGN, and with high sensitivity detectors, its full potential in
echo-mapping the otherwise inaccessible disk-corona at the black hole horizon
scale will be revealed.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04667v1
Astro2020 Science White Paper: Fundamental Physics with Brown Dwarfs:
  The Mass-Radius Relation
The lowest-mass stars, brown dwarfs and giant exoplanets span a minimum in
the mass-radius relationship that probes the fundamental physics of extreme
states of matter, magnetism, and fusion. This White Paper outlines scientific
opportunities and the necessary resources for modeling and measuring the
mass-radius relationship in this regime.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05583v1
Astro2020 Decadal Science White Paper: Gravitational Wave Survey of
  Galactic Ultra Compact Binaries
Ultra-compact binaries (UCBs) are systems containing compact or degenerate
stars with orbital periods less than one hour. Tens of millions of UCBs are
predicted to exist within theGalaxy emitting gravitational waves (GWs) at mHz
frequencies. Combining GW searches with electromagnetic (EM) surveys like Gaia
and LSST will yield a comprehensive, multimessenger catalog of UCBs in the
galaxy. Joint EM and GW observations enable measurements of masses, radii, and
orbital dynamics far beyond what can be achieved by independent EM or GW
studies. GW+EM surveys of UCBs in the galaxy will yield a trove of unique
insights into the nature of white dwarfs, the formation of compact objects,
dynamical interactions in binaries, and energetic, accretion-driven phenomena
like Type Ia superonovae.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04657v1
Astro2020 Science White Paper: Cosmology with a Space-Based
  Gravitational Wave Observatory
There are two big questions cosmologists would like to answer -- How does the
Universe work, and what are its origin and destiny? A long wavelength
gravitational wave detector -- with million km interferometer arms, achievable
only from space -- gives a unique opportunity to address both of these
questions. A sensitive, mHz frequency observatory could use the inspiral and
merger of massive black hole binaries as standard sirens, extending our ability
to characterize the expansion history of the Universe from the onset of dark
energy-domination out to a redshift z ~ 10. A low-frequency detector,
furthermore, offers the best chance for discovery of exotic gravitational wave
sources, including a primordial stochastic background, that could reveal clues
to the origin of our Universe.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04664v1
Astro2020 Science White Paper: High-Resolution Spectroscopic Surveys of
  Ultracool Dwarf Stars & Brown Dwarfs
High resolution spectroscopy of the lowest-mass stars and brown dwarfs
reveals their origins, multiplicity, compositions and physical properties, with
implications for the star formation and chemical evolution history of the Milky
Way. We motivate the need for high-resolution, infrared spectroscopic surveys
to reach these faint sources.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04686v1
Discovery of Cold Brown Dwarfs or Free-Floating Giant Planets Close to
  the Sun
This White Paper describes the opportunities for discovery of Jupiter-mass
objects with 300K atmospheres. The discovery and characterization of such cold
objects is vital for understanding the low-mass terminus of the initial mass
function and for optimizing the study of exoplanets by the next generation of
large telescopes, space probes and space missions.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04592v1
Astro2020 Decadal Science White Paper: The state of gravitational-wave
  astrophysics in 2020
While still in its infancy, the budding field of gravitational-wave astronomy
has so far exceeded most expectations, and the achievements that have already
been made bode well for the decade to come. While the discoveries made possible
by LIGO have captured the imagination of experts and nonexperts alike, it is
important when looking ahead to consider those discoveries in the context of
the field as a whole. Just as radio, optical, and x-ray radiation probe
different physical phenomena occurring on a range of length and energy scales,
the future of gravitational-wave astrophysics depends on our ability to open up
the entire spectrum. We will describe the scientific prospects for the field of
gravitational-wave astronomy as a whole as we enter the coming decade, and we
will place the specific contributions from a future space-based
gravitational-wave observatory within this context.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05592v1
Astro2020: Unlocking the Secrets of Late-Stage Stellar Evolution and
  Mass Loss through Radio Wavelength Imaging
During the late phases of evolution, low-to-intermediate mass stars like our
Sun undergo periods of extensive mass loss, returning up to 80% of their
initial mass to the interstellar medium. This mass loss profoundly affects the
stellar evolutionary history, and the resulting circumstellar ejecta are a
primary source of dust and heavy element enrichment in the Galaxy. However,
many details concerning the physics of late-stage stellar mass loss remain
poorly understood, including the wind launching mechanism(s), the mass loss
geometry and timescales, and the mass loss histories of stars of various
initial masses. These uncertainties have implications not only for stellar
astrophysics, but for fields ranging from star formation to extragalactic
astronomy and cosmology. Observations at centimeter, millimeter, and
submillimeter wavelengths that resolve the radio surfaces and extended
atmospheres of evolved stars in space, time, and frequency are poised to
provide groundbreaking new insights into these questions in the coming decade.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04063v1
What is the nature and origin of the highest-energy particles in the
  universe?
This white paper was submitted to the US Astronomy and Astrophysics Decadal
Survey (Astro2020) and defines the science questions to be answered in the next
decade in the field of Ultra-High Energy Cosmic-Rays. Following a review of the
recent experimental and theoretical advances in the field, the paper outlines
strategies and requirements desirable for the design of future experiments.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04612v2
Astro2020 Science White Paper: Understanding the evolution of close
  white dwarf binaries
Interacting binaries containing white dwarfs can lead to a variety of
outcomes that range from powerful thermonuclear explosions, which are important
in the chemical evolution of galaxies and as cosmological distance estimators,
to strong sources of low frequency gravitational wave radiation, which makes
them ideal calibrators for the gravitational low-frequency wave detector LISA
mission. However, current theoretical evolution models still fail to explain
the observed properties of the known populations of white dwarfs in both
interacting and detached binaries. Major limitations are that the existing
population models have generally been developed to explain the properties of
sub-samples of these systems, occupying small volumes of the vast parameter
space, and that the observed samples are severely biased. The overarching goal
for the next decade is to assemble a large and homogeneous sample of white
dwarf binaries that spans the entire range of evolutionary states, to obtain
precise measurements of their physical properties, and to further develop the
theory to satisfactorily reproduce the properties of the entire population.
While ongoing and future all-sky high- and low-resolution optical spectroscopic
surveys allow us to enlarge the sample of these systems, high-resolution
ultraviolet spectroscopy is absolutely essential for the characterization of
the white dwarfs in these binaries. The Hubble Space Telescope is currently the
only facility that provides ultraviolet spectroscopy, and with its foreseeable
demise, planning the next ultraviolet mission is of utmost urgency.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05544v1
The radio search for technosignatures in the decade 2020-2030
Advancing the scientific frontier in the search for life in the universe
requires support of searches for both biosignatures and technosignatures. A
modest budgetary increment can expand the search for life in the universe from
primitive to complex life and from the solar neighborhood to the entire Galaxy.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05130v1
Astro2020 Science White Paper: Science Platforms for Resolved Stellar
  Populations in the Next Decade
Over the past decade, research in resolved stellar populations has made great
strides in exploring the nature of dark matter, in unraveling the star
formation, chemical enrichment, and dynamical histories of the Milky Way and
nearby galaxies, and in probing fundamental physics from general relativity to
the structure of stars. Large surveys have been particularly important to the
biggest of these discoveries. In the coming decade, current and planned surveys
will push these research areas still further through a large variety of
discovery spaces, giving us unprecedented views into the low surface brightness
Universe, the high surface brightness Universe, the 3D motions of stars, the
time domain, and the chemical abundances of stellar populations. These
discovery spaces will be opened by a diverse range of facilities, including the
continuing Gaia mission, imaging machines like LSST and WFIRST, massively
multiplexed spectroscopic platforms like DESI, Subaru-PFS, and MSE, and
telescopes with high sensitivity and spatial resolution like JWST, the ELTs,
and LUVOIR. We do not know which of these facilities will prove most critical
for resolved stellar populations research in the next decade. We can predict,
however, that their chance of success will be maximized by granting use of the
data to broad communities, that many scientific discoveries will draw on a
combination of data from them, and that advances in computing will enable
increasingly sophisticated analyses of the large and complex datasets that they
will produce. We recommend that Astro2020 1) acknowledge the critical role that
data archives will play for stellar populations and other science in the next
decade, 2) recognize the opportunity that advances in computing will bring for
survey data analysis, and 3) consider investments in Science Platform
technology to bring these opportunities to fruition.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1901.07571v1
Near-Field Cosmology with the Lowest-Mass Galaxies
The premise of "near-field cosmology" is that the study of nearby low-mass
galaxies on a star-by-star basis has implications that extend far beyond the
local Universe and include the nature of dark matter, lives and deaths of the
first stars, cosmic reionization, and galaxy formation across cosmic time. In
response to the Astro2020 call for science white papers, we provide a
high-level synopsis of several major questions in near-field cosmology, the
potential for transformative progress in the next decade and beyond, and
mechanisms for achieving these goals. Our recommendations include: (i)
obtaining kinematic information from large samples of individual line-of-sight
and transverse velocities of stars and from spatially resolved gas observations
in nearby dwarf galaxies to directly inform our understanding of dark matter
interactions in the deeply nonlinear regime; and (ii) an intensive program of
optical imaging and UV and optical spectroscopy of resolved stars in low-mass
galaxies, including low-metallicity massive stars and HII regions (which are
central to understanding faint galaxies at all earlier epochs). Realizing these
aims requires a large aperture ($\gtrsim 9$m) UV/optical space telescope, a
two-fold community investment in ground-based optical spectroscopy through both
ELTs and a dedicated wide-field spectroscopic survey on a 10m class telescope,
and radio facilities that can measure high-precision, spatially resolved
rotation curves of low-mass galaxies. Finally, we suggest that a servicing
mission to extend the life of HST beyond 2025 should be seriously explored.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05026v1
Astro2020 Science White Paper: Assembly of the Most Massive Clusters at
  Cosmic Noon
Galaxy evolution is driven by many complex interrelated processes as galaxies
accrete gas, form new stars, grow their stellar masses and central black holes,
and subsequently quench. The processes that drive these transformations is
poorly understood, but it is clear that the local environment on multiple
scales plays a significant role. Today's massive clusters are dominated by
spheroidal galaxies with low levels of star formation while those in the field
are mostly still actively forming their stars. In order to understand the
physical processes that drive both the mass build up in galaxies and the
quenching of star formation, we need to investigate galaxies and their
surrounding gas within and around the precursors of today's massive galaxy
clusters -- protoclusters at z>2. The transition period before protoclusters
began to quench and become the massive clusters we observe today is a crucial
time to investigate their properties and the mechanisms driving their
evolution. However, until now, progress characterizing the galaxies within
protoclusters has been slow, due the difficulty of obtaining highly complete
spectroscopic observations of faint galaxies at z>2 over large areas of the
sky. The next decade will see a transformational shift in our understanding of
protoclusters as deep spectroscopy over wide fields of view will be possible in
conjunction with high resolution deep imaging in the optical and near-infrared.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05094v1
Stellar multiplicity: an interdisciplinary nexus
Our uncertainties about binary star systems (and triples and so on) limit our
capabilities in literally every single one of the Thematic Areas identified for
Astro2020. We need to understand the population statistics of stellar
multiplicity and their variations with stellar type, chemistry, and dynamical
environment: Correct interpretation of any exoplanet experiment depends on
proper treatment of resolved and unresolved binaries; stellar multiplicity is a
direct outcome of star and companion formation; the most precise constraints on
stellar structure come from well-characterized binary systems; stellar
populations heavily rely on stellar and binary evolution modeling;
high-redshift galaxy radiation and reionization is controlled by
binary-dependent stellar physics; compact objects are the outcomes of binary
evolution; the interpretation of multi-messenger astronomy from gravitational
waves, light, and neutrinos relies on understanding the products of binary star
evolution; near-Universe constraints on the Hubble constant with Type Ia
supernovae and gravitational-wave mergers are subject to systematics related to
their binary star progenitors; local measures of dark-matter substructure
masses are distorted by binary populations. In order to realize the scientific
goals in each of these themes over the next decade, we therefore need to
understand how binary stars and stellar multiplets are formed and distributed
in the space of masses, composition, age, and orbital properties, and how the
distribution evolves with time. This white paper emphasizes the
interdisciplinary importance of binary-star science and advocates that
coordinated investment from all astrophysical communities will benefit almost
all branches of astrophysics.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04333v1
Fundamental Physics with High-Energy Cosmic Neutrinos
High-energy cosmic neutrinos can reveal new fundamental particles and
interactions, probing energy and distance scales far exceeding those accessible
in the laboratory. This white paper describes the outstanding particle physics
questions that high-energy cosmic neutrinos can address in the coming decade. A
companion white paper discusses how the observation of cosmic neutrinos can
address open questions in astrophysics. Tests of fundamental physics using
high-energy cosmic neutrinos will be enabled by detailed measurements of their
energy spectrum, arrival directions, flavor composition, and timing.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04334v1
Astrophysics Uniquely Enabled by Observations of High-Energy Cosmic
  Neutrinos
High-energy cosmic neutrinos carry unique information about the most
energetic non-thermal sources in the Universe. This white paper describes the
outstanding astrophysics questions that neutrino astronomy can address in the
coming decade. A companion white paper discusses how the observation of cosmic
neutrinos can address open questions in fundamental physics. Detailed
measurements of the diffuse neutrino flux, measurements of neutrinos from point
sources, and multi-messenger observations with neutrinos will enable the
discovery and characterization of the most energetic sources in the Universe.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04472v1
Gamma Rays and Gravitational Waves
The first multimessenger observation of a neutron star merger was
independently detected in gamma-rays by Fermi-GBM and INTEGRAL SPI-ACS and
gravitational waves by Advanced LIGO and Advanced Virgo. Gravitational waves
are emitted from systems with accelerating quadrupole moments, and detectable
sources are expected to be compact objects. Nearly all distant astrophysical
gamma-ray sources are compact objects. Therefore, serendipitous observations of
these two messengers will continue to uncover the sources of gravitational
waves and gamma-rays, and enable multimessenger science across the Astro2020
thematic areas. This requires upgrades to the ground-based gravitational wave
network and ~keV-MeV gamma-ray coverage for observations of neutron star
mergers, and broadband coverage in both gravitational waves and gamma-rays to
monitor other expected joint sources.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04525v1
Astro2020 Science White Paper: What is the lifecycle of gas and stars in
  galaxy centers?
The closest galaxy center, our own Central Molecular Zone (CMZ; the central
500 pc of the Milky Way), is a powerful laboratory for studying the secular
processes that shape galaxies across cosmic time, from large-scale gas flows
and star formation to stellar feedback and interaction with a central
supermassive black hole. Research over the last decade has revealed that the
process of converting gas into stars in galaxy centers differs from that in
galaxy disks. The CMZ is the only galaxy center in which we can identify and
weigh individual forming stars, so it is the key location to establish the
physical laws governing star formation and feedback under the conditions that
dominate star formation across cosmic history. Large-scale surveys of molecular
and atomic gas within the inner kiloparsec of the Milky Way (~10 degrees) will
require efficient mapping capabilities on single-dish radio telescopes.
Characterizing the detailed star formation process will require large-scale,
high-resolution surveys of the protostellar populations and small-scale gas
structure with dedicated surveys on the Atacama Large Millimeter/submillimeter
Array, and eventually with the James Webb Space Telescope, the Next Generation
Very Large Array, and the Origins Space Telescope.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05602v1
Astro2020: Molecular Masers as Probes of the Dynamic Atmospheres of
  Dying Stars
More than half of the dust and heavy element enrichment in galaxies
originates from the winds and outflows of evolved, low-to-intermediate mass
stars on the asymptotic giant branch (AGB). However, numerous details of the
physics of late-stage stellar mass loss remain poorly understood, ranging from
the wind launching mechanism(s) to the geometry and timescales of the mass
loss. One of the major challenges to understanding AGB winds is that the AGB
evolutionary phase is characterized by the interplay between highly complex and
dynamic processes, including radial pulsations, shocks, magnetic fields,
opacity changes due to dust and molecule formation, and large-scale convective
flows. Collectively, these phenomena lead to changes in the observed stellar
properties on timescales of days to years. Probing the complex atmospheric
physics of AGB stars therefore demands exquisite spatial resolution, coupled
with temporal monitoring over both short and long timescales. Observations of
the molecular maser lines that arise in the winds and outflows of AGB stars
using very long baseline interferometry (VLBI) offer one of the most powerful
tools available to measure the atmospheric dynamics, physical conditions, and
magnetic fields with ultra-high spatial resolution (i.e., up to tens of
microarcseconds, corresponding to ~0.002R* at d~150pc), coupled with the
ability to track features and phenomena on timescales of days to years.
Observational advances in the coming decade will enable contemporaneous
observations of an unprecedented number of maser transitions spanning
centimeter to submillimeter wavelengths. In evolved stars, observations of
masers within the winds and outflows are poised to provide groundbreaking new
insights into the atmospheric physics and mass-loss process.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.03628v1
Astro2020 Science White Paper: A proposal to exploit galaxy-21cm
  synergies to shed light on the Epoch of Reionization
This white paper highlights the crucial and urgent synergies required between
WFIRST, Subaru Hyper Suprime-Cam or other >25m-class telescopes galaxy
observations and SKA 21cm measurements to constrain the nature of reionization
(ionization history and topology) and its sources.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05287v1
X-ray follow-up of extragalactic transients
Most violent and energetic processes in our universe, including mergers of
compact objects, explosions of massive stars and extreme accretion events,
produce copious amounts of X-rays. X-ray follow-up is an efficient tool for
identifying transients because (1) X-rays can quickly localize transients with
large error circles, and (2) X-rays reveal the nature of transients that may
not have unique signatures at other wavelengths. In this white paper, we
identify key science questions about several extragalactic multi-messenger and
multi-wavelength transients, and demonstrate how X-ray follow-up helps answer
these questions

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05719v1
EUV observations of cool dwarf stars
The EUV (100-912 {\AA}) is a spectral region notoriously difficult to observe
due to attenuation by neutral hydrogen gas in the interstellar medium. Despite
this, hundreds to thousands of nearby stars of different spectral types and
magnetic activity levels are accessible in the EUV range. The EUV probes
interesting and complicated regions in the stellar atmosphere like the lower
corona and transition region that are inaccessible from other spectral regions.
In this white paper we describe how direct EUV observations, which require a
dedicated grazing-incidence observatory, cannot yet be accurately substituted
with models and theory. Exploring EUV emission from cool dwarf stars in the
time domain can make a major contribution to understanding stellar outer
atmospheres and magnetism, and offers the clearest path toward detecting
coronal mass ejections on stars other than the Sun.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05665v1
Astro2020 Science White Paper: Toward Finding Earth 2.0: Masses and
  Orbits of Small Planets with Extreme Radial Velocity Precision
Having discovered that Earth-sized planets are common, we are now embarking
on a journey to determine if Earth-like planets are also common. Finding
Earth-like planets is one of the most compelling endeavors of the 21st century
- leading us toward finally answering the question: Are we alone? To achieve
this forward-looking goal, we must determine the masses of the planets; the
sizes of the planets, by themselves, are not sufficient for the determination
of the bulk and atmospheric compositions. Masses, coupled with the radii, are
crucial constraints on the bulk composition and interior structure of the
planets and the composition of their atmospheres, including the search for
biosignatures. Precision radial velocity is the most viable technique for
providing essential mass and orbit information for spectroscopy of other
Earths. The development of high quality precision radial velocity instruments
coupled to the building of the large telescope facilities like TMT and GMT or
space-based platforms like EarthFinder can enable very high spectral resolution
observations with extremely precise radial velocities on minute timescales to
allow for the modeling and removal of radial velocity jitter. Over the next
decade, the legacy of exoplanet astrophysics can be cemented firmly as part of
humankind's quest in finding the next Earth - but only if we can measure the
masses and orbits of Earth-sized planets in habitable zone orbits around
Sun-like stars.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04634v1
Energetic Particles of Cosmic Accelerators I: Galactic Accelerators
The high-energy universe has revealed that energetic particles are ubiquitous
in the cosmos and play a vital role in the cultivation of cosmic environments
on all scales. Energetic particles in our own galaxy, galactic cosmic rays
(GCRs), engage in a complex interplay with the interstellar medium and magnetic
fields in the galaxy, giving rise to many of its key characteristics. This
White Paper is the first of a two-part series highlighting the most well-known
high-energy cosmic accelerators and contributions that MeV gamma-ray astronomy
will bring to understanding their energetic particle phenomena. The focus of
this white paper is galactic cosmic rays, supernova remnants, protostellar jets
and superbubbles, and colliding wind binaries.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04639v1
Energetic Particles of Cosmic Accelerators II: Active Galactic Nuclei
  and Gamma-ray Bursts
The high-energy universe has revealed that energetic particles are ubiquitous
in the cosmos and play a vital role in the cultivation of cosmic environments
on all scales. Though they play a key role in cultivating the cosmological
environment and/or enabling our studies of it, there is still much we do not
know about AGNs and GRBs, particularly the avenue in which and through which
they supply radiation and energetic particles, namely their jets. This White
Paper is the second of a two-part series highlighting the most well-known
high-energy cosmic accelerators and contributions that MeV gamma-ray astronomy
will bring to understanding their energetic particle phenomena. The focus of
this white paper is active galactic nuclei and gamma-ray bursts.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1902.10159v1
The Role of Machine Learning in the Next Decade of Cosmology
In recent years, machine learning (ML) methods have remarkably improved how
cosmologists can interpret data. The next decade will bring new opportunities
for data-driven cosmological discovery, but will also present new challenges
for adopting ML methodologies and understanding the results. ML could transform
our field, but this transformation will require the astronomy community to both
foster and promote interdisciplinary research endeavors.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.02781v1
Tests of General Relativity and Fundamental Physics with Space-based
  Gravitational Wave Detectors
Low-frequency gravitational-wave astronomy can perform precision tests of
general relativity and probe fundamental physics in a regime previously
inaccessible. A space-based detector will be a formidable tool to explore
gravity's role in the cosmos, potentially telling us if and where Einstein's
theory fails and providing clues about some of the greatest mysteries in
physics and astronomy, such as dark matter and the origin of the Universe.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.03689v1
Neutrino Mass from Cosmology: Probing Physics Beyond the Standard Model
Recent advances in cosmic observations have brought us to the verge of
discovery of the absolute scale of neutrino masses. Nonzero neutrino masses are
known evidence of new physics beyond the Standard Model. Our understanding of
the clustering of matter in the presence of massive neutrinos has significantly
improved over the past decade, yielding cosmological constraints that are
tighter than any laboratory experiment, and which will improve significantly
over the next decade, resulting in a guaranteed detection of the absolute
neutrino mass scale.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04065v1
Accretion in Stellar-Mass Black Holes at High X-ray Spectral Resolution
Accretion disks around stellar-mass black holes offer unique opportunities to
study the fundamental physics of standard thin disks, super-Eddington disks,
and structure that may be connected to flux variability. These local analogues
of active galactic nuclei (AGN) are particularly attractive for their
proximity, high flux, and peak emissivity in the X-ray band. X-ray calorimeter
spectrometers, with energy resolutions of 2-5 eV, are ideally suited to study
accretion in stellar-mass black holes. The results will make strong tests of
seminal disk theory that applies in a broad range of circumstances, help to
drive new numerical simulations, and will inform our understanding of AGN
fueling, evolution, and feedback.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04482v1
Tracing the Origins and Evolution of Small Planets using Their Orbital
  Obliquities
We recommend an intensive effort to survey and understand the obliquity
distribution of small close-in extrasolar planets over the coming decade. The
orbital obliquities of exoplanets--i.e., the relative orientation between the
planetary orbit and the stellar rotation--is a key tracer of how planets form
and migrate. While the orbital obliquities of smaller planets are poorly
explored today, a new generation of facilities coming online over the next
decade will make such observations possible en masse. Transit spectroscopic
observations with the extremely large telescopes will enable us to measure the
orbital obliquities of planets as small as $\sim2R_{\oplus}$ around a wide
variety of stars, opening a window into the orbital properties of the most
common types of planets. This effort will directly contribute to understanding
the formation and evolution of planetary systems, a key objective of the
National Academy of Sciences' Exoplanet Science Strategies report.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04559v1
Identification and characterization of the host stars in planetary
  microlensing with ELTs
Microlensing offers a unique opportunity to probe exoplanets that are
temperate and beyond the snow line, as small as Jovian satellites, at
extragalactic distance, and even free floating exoplanets, regimes where the
sensitivity of other methods drops dramatically. This is because microlensing
does not depend on the brightness of the planetary host star. The microlensing
method thus provides great leverage in studying the exoplanets beyond the snow
line, posing tests to the core accretion mechanism, especially on the run-away
phase of gas accretion to form giant planets. Here we propose to robustly and
routinely measure the masses of exoplanets beyond 1 AU from their host stars
with the microlensing method; our experiment relies on directly imaging and
resolving the host star (namely the lens) from the background source of the
microlensing events, which requires the high spatial resolution delivered by
the ELTs. A direct result from this project will be planet occurrence rate
beyond the snow line, which will enable us to discern different planet
formation mechanisms.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04648v1
Determining the Equation of State of Cold, Dense Matter with X-ray
  Observations of Neutron Stars
The unknown state of matter at ultra-high density, large proton/neutron
number asymmetry, and low temperature is a major long-standing problem in
modern physics. Neutron stars provide the only known setting in the Universe
where matter in this regime can stably exist. Valuable information about the
interior structure of neutron stars can be extracted via sensitive observations
of their exteriors. There are several complementary techniques that require
different combinations of high time resolution, superb spectral resolution, and
high spatial resolution. In the upcoming decade and beyond, measurements of the
masses and radii of an ensemble of neutron stars using these techniques, based
on data from multiple proposed next-generation X-ray telescopes, can produce
definitive empirical constraints on the allowed dense matter equation of state.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04660v1
High Angular Resolution Astrophysics: Resolving Stellar Surface Features
We are now in an era where we can image details on the surfaces of stars.
When resolving stellar surfaces, we see that every surface is uniquely
complicated. Each imaged star provides insight into not only the stellar
surface structures, but also the stellar interiors suggesting constraints on
evolution and dynamo models. As more resources become operational in the coming
years, imaging stellar surfaces should become commonplace for revealing the
true nature of stars. Here, we discuss the main types of stars for which
imaging surface features is currently useful and what improved observing
techniques would provide for imaging stellar surface features.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04700v1
Probing the origin of our Universe through cosmic microwave background
  constraints on gravitational waves
The next generation of instruments designed to measure the polarization of
the cosmic microwave background (CMB) will provide a historic opportunity to
open the gravitational wave window to the primordial Universe. Through high
sensitivity searches for primordial gravitational waves, and tighter limits on
the energy released in processes like phase transitions, the CMB polarization
data of the next decade has the potential to transform our understanding of the
laws of physics underlying the formation of the Universe.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05107v1
Star Formation in Different Environments: The Initial Mass Function
The stellar initial mass function (IMF) is a fundamental property of star
formation, offering key insight into the physics driving the process as well as
informing our understanding of stellar populations, their by-products, and
their impact on the surrounding medium. While the IMF appears to be fairly
uniform in the Milky Way disk, it is not yet known how the IMF might behave
across a wide range of environments, such as those with extreme gas
temperatures and densities, high pressures, and low metallicities. We discuss
new opportunities for measuring the IMF in such environments in the coming
decade with JWST, WFIRST, and thirty-meter class telescopes. For the first
time, we will be able to measure the high-mass slope and peak of the IMF via
direct star counts for massive star clusters across the Milky Way and Local
Group, providing stringent constraints for star formation theory and laying the
groundwork for understanding distant and unresolved stellar systems.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05140v1
Cosmological Probes of Dark Matter Interactions: The Next Decade
Cosmological observations offer unique and robust avenues for probing the
fundamental nature of dark matter particles-they broadly test a range of
compelling theoretical scenarios, often surpassing or complementing the reach
of terrestrial and other experiments. We discuss observational and theoretical
advancements that will play a pivotal role in realizing a strong program of
cosmological searches for the identity of dark matter in the coming decade.
Specifically, we focus on measurements of the cosmic-microwave-background
anisotropy and spectral distortions, and tracers of structure (such as the
Lyman-$\alpha$ forest, galaxies, and the cosmological 21-cm signal).

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05656v1
Direct Acceleration: Cosmic and Exoplanet Synergies
Direct measurement of acceleration is a key scientific goal for both
cosmology and exoplanets. For cosmology, the concept of redshift drift (more
than 60 years old by the 2020s) could directly establish the
Friedmann-Lema{\^\i}tre-Robertson-Walker model. It would increase the dark
energy figure of merit by a factor of 3 beyond Stage 4 experiments, in
combination with cosmic microwave background measurements. For exoplanets, the
same technology required provides unprecedented radial velocity accuracy,
enabling detection of Earth mass planets in the habitable zone. Other science
cases include mapping the Milky Way gravitational potential and testing its
dark matter distribution.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05718v1
EUV influences on exoplanet atmospheric stability and evolution
The planetary effective surface temperature alone is insufficient to
characterize exoplanet atmospheres and their stability or evolution.
Considering the star-planet system as a whole is necessary, and a critical
component of the system is the photoionizing stellar extreme ultraviolet
emission (EUV; 100-912 {\AA}). EUV photons drive atmospheric mass loss through
thermal and nonthermal processes, and an accurate accounting of the EUV energy
deposition in a planet's energy budget is essential, especially for terrestrial
habitable zone planets and close-in gaseous planets. Direct EUV observations of
exoplanet host stars would require a new, dedicated observatory. Archival
observations from the $\textit{EUVE}$ satellite, models, and theory alone are
insufficient to accurately characterize EUV spectra of the majority of
exoplanet host stars, especially for low-mass stars.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05834v1
Ultraviolet Spectropolarimetry as a Tool for Understanding the Diversity
  of Exoplanetary Atmospheres
The polarization state of starlight reflected by a planetary atmosphere
uniquely reveals coverage, particle size, and composition of aerosols as well
as changing cloud patterns. It is not possible to obtain a comparable level of
detailed from flux-only observations. Furthermore, polarization observations
can probe the atmosphere of planets independently of the orbital geometry
(i.e., transiting and non-transiting planets). We show that a high-resolution
spectropolarimeter with a broad wavelength coverage, particularly if attached
to a large space telescope, would enable simultaneous study of the polarimetric
exoplanet properties of the continuum and to look for and characterize the
polarimetric signal due to scattering from single molecules.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04461v1
Opportunities for Multimessenger Astronomy in the 2020s
Electromagnetic observations of the sky have been the basis for our study of
the Universe for millennia, cosmic ray studies are now entering their second
century, the first neutrinos from an astrophysical source were identified three
decades ago, and gravitational waves were directly detected only four years
ago. Detections of these messengers are now common. Astrophysics will undergo a
revolution in the 2020s as multimessenger detections become routine. The 8th
Astro2020 Thematic Area is Multimessenger Astronomy and Astrophysics, which
includes the identification of the sources of gravitational waves,
astrophysical and cosmogenic neutrinos, cosmic rays, and gamma-rays, and the
coordinated multimessenger and multiwavelength follow-ups. Identifying and
characterizing multimessenger sources enables science throughout and beyond
astrophysics. Success in the multimessenger era requires: (i) sensitive
coverage of the non-electromagnetic messengers, (ii) full coverage of the
electromagnetic spectrum, with either fast-response observations or broad and
deep high-cadence surveys, and (iii) improved collaboration, communication, and
notification platforms.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04509v1
Astro2020: Empirically Constraining Galaxy Evolution
Over the past decade, empirical constraints on the galaxy-dark matter halo
connection have significantly advanced our understanding of galaxy evolution.
Past techniques have focused on connections between halo properties and galaxy
stellar mass and/or star formation rates. Empirical techniques in the next
decade will link halo assembly histories with galaxies' circumgalactic media,
supermassive black holes, morphologies, kinematics, sizes, colors,
metallicities, and transient rates. Uncovering these links will resolve many
critical uncertainties in galaxy formation and will enable much higher-fidelity
mock catalogs essential for interpreting observations. Achieving these results
will require broader and deeper spectroscopic coverage of galaxies and their
circumgalactic media; survey teams will also need to meet several criteria
(cross-comparisons, public access, and covariance matrices) to facilitate
combining data across different surveys. Acting on these recommendations will
continue enabling dramatic progress in both empirical modeling and galaxy
evolution for the next decade.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.06152v1
Constraining Stellar Photospheres as an Essential Step for Transmission
  Spectroscopy of Small Exoplanets
Transmission spectra probe the atmospheres of transiting exoplanets, but
these observations are also subject to signals introduced by magnetic active
regions on host stars. Here we outline scientific opportunities in the next
decade for providing useful constraints on stellar photospheres and inform
interpretations of transmission spectra of the smallest ($R<4\,R_{\odot}$)
exoplanets. We identify and discuss four primary opportunities: (1) refining
stellar magnetic active region properties through exoplanet crossing events;
(2) spectral decomposition of active exoplanet host stars; (3) joint retrievals
of stellar photospheric and planetary atmospheric properties with studies of
transmission spectra; and (4) continued visual transmission spectroscopy
studies to complement longer-wavelength studies from $\textit{JWST}$. We make
five recommendations to the Astro2020 Decadal Survey Committee: (1) identify
the transit light source (TLS) effect as a challenge to precise exoplanet
transmission spectroscopy and an opportunity ripe for scientific advancement in
the coming decade; (2) include characterization of host star photospheric
heterogeneity as part of a comprehensive research strategy for studying
transiting exoplanets; (3) support the construction of ground-based extremely
large telescopes (ELTs); (4) support multi-disciplinary research teams that
bring together the heliophysics, stellar physics, and exoplanet communities to
further exploit transiting exoplanets as spatial probes of stellar
photospheres; and (5) support visual transmission spectroscopy efforts as
complements to longer-wavelength observational campaigns with $\textit{JWST}$.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.03582v1
A Summary of Multimessenger Science with Neutron Star Mergers
Neutron star mergers, referring to both binary neutron star and neutron star
black hole mergers, are the canonical multimessenger events. They have been
detected across the electromagnetic spectrum, have recently been detected in
gravitational waves, and are likely to produce neutrinos over several decades
in energy. The non-thermal prompt and afterglow emission of short gamma-ray
bursts and the quasi-thermal emission from the radioactively powered kilonovae
provide distinct insights into the physics of neutron star mergers. When
combined with direct information on coalescence from gravitational waves and
neutrinos these sources may become the best understood astrophysical
transients. Multimessenger observations of these cataclysmic events will
determine sources of gravitational waves and astrophysical neutrinos, enable
precision cosmology, and unique tests of fundamental physics, the origin of
heavy elements, the behavior of relativistic jets, and the equation of state of
supranuclear matter. In this white paper we present a summary of the science
discoveries possible with multimessenger observations of neutron star mergers
and provide recommendations to enable them in the new era of time-domain,
multimessenger astronomy.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04831v1
The Magellanic Stream as a Probe of Astrophysics
Extending for over 200 degrees across the sky, the Magellanic Stream together
with its Leading Arm is the most spectacular example of a gaseous stream in the
local Universe. The Stream is an interwoven tail of filaments trailing the
Magellanic Clouds as they orbit the Milky Way. Thought to be created by tidal
forces, ram pressure, and halo interactions, the Stream is a benchmark for
dynamical models of the Magellanic System, a case study for gas accretion and
dwarf-galaxy accretion onto galaxies, a probe of the outer halo, and the bearer
of more gas mass than all other Galactic high velocity clouds combined. If it
survives to reach the Galactic disk, it may maintain or even elevate the
Galactic star-formation rate. In this white paper, we emphasize the Stream's
importance for many areas of Galactic astronomy, summarize key unanswered
questions, and identify future observations and simulations needed to resolve
them. We stress the importance of ultraviolet, optical, and radio spectroscopy,
and the need for computational models that capture full particle and radiation
treatments within an MHD environment.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04980v1
Tracing the formation history of galaxy clusters into the epoch of
  reionization
The large-scale overdensities of galaxies at z~2-7 known as protoclusters are
believed to be the sites of cluster formation, and deep, wide survey projects
such as the Large Synoptic Survey Telescope (LSST) and the Wide Field Infrared
Survey Telescope (WFIRST) will deliver significant numbers of these interesting
structures. Spectroscopic confirmation and interpretation of these targets,
however, is still challenging, and will require wide-field multi-plexed
spectroscopy on >20 m-class telescopes in the optical and near-infrared. In the
coming decade, detailed studies of protoclusters will enable us, for the first
time, to systematically connect these cluster progenitors in the early universe
to their virialized counterparts at lower redshifts. This will allow us to
address observationally the formation of brightest cluster galaxies and other
cluster galaxy populations, the buildup of the intra-cluster light, the
chemical enrichment history of the intra-cluster medium, and the formation and
triggering of supermassive black holes in dense environments, all of which are
currently almost exclusively approached either through the fossil record in
clusters or through numerical simulations. Furthermore, at the highest
redshifts (z~5-10), these large extended overdensities of star-forming galaxies
are believed to have played an important role in the reionization of the
universe, which needs to be tested by upcoming experiments. Theory and recent
simulations also suggest important links between these overdensities and the
formation of supermassive black holes, but observational evidence is still
lacking. In this white paper we review our current understanding of this
important phase of galaxy cluster history that will be explored by the next
generation of large aperture ground-based telescopes GMT and TMT.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05241v1
Probing the Physical Properties of the Corona in Accreting Black Holes
The corona is a key component of most luminous accreting black holes,
carrying 5 - 30 % of the power and in non-jetted Active Galactic Nuclei (AGN),
creating all the X-ray emission above $\simeq 1-2$ keV. Its emission
illuminates the inner accretion disc, creating the atomic line-rich reflection
spectrum used to diagnose and map the accretion flow and measure black hole
spin. The corona is likely powered magnetically by the strong differential
rotation of the accretion disc and it may be intimately related to relativistic
jets. Recent work shows that many black hole coronae may be dominated by
electron-positron pairs produced by photon-photon collisions in the compact
coronal environment. Despite the corona being an integral component of AGN and
black hole binary systems, much is still unknown about the nature of the
corona, such as its geometry, location, and the physical mechanisms powering
the emission. In this white paper we explore our current understanding of
coronal properties, such as its temperature, obtained from measurements with
existing hard X-ray telescopes such as NuSTAR, and discuss important questions
to be addressed in the coming decade surrounding the nature of the corona. Hard
X-ray observations will continue to dispel the mystery of coronae and open up
this part of the quasar engine to full understanding.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05699v1
Prospects for the detection of synchrotron halos around middle-age
  pulsars
The origin of cosmic-ray positrons detected with an energy above 10 GeV is
one of the most intriguing mysteries in Astroparticle Physics. Different
interpretations have been invoked to solve this puzzle such as pulsar wind
nebulae (PWNe), supernovae remnants or interactions of dark matter particles.
The HAWC and Milagro experiments have measured an extended emission of photons
above 10 TeV in the direction of Geminga and Monogem PWNe which can be
interpreted by photons emitted through inverse Compton scattering by positrons
and electrons accelerated by these sources. These HAWC and Milagro detections
are extremely important to estimate the PWN contribution to the positron
excess. Positrons and electrons emitted by PWNe and injected in the
interstellar medium can produce photons with an energy between radio and X-ray
through synchrotron radiation with the Galactic magnetic field. In this white
paper we show that Astrophysics Probe mission concepts, such as AMEGO (the
All-sky Medium Energy Gamma-ray Observatory) and AdEPT (The Advanced Energetic
Pair Telescope), are suitable to detect the synchrotron halos from Monogem and
Geminga PWNe and we will report the list of the most promising PWNe that AMEGO
could be able to detect.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1902.06612v1
An Arena for Multi-Messenger Astrophysics: Inspiral and Tidal Disruption
  of White Dwarfs by Massive Black Holes
The tidal disruption of stars by (super-)massive black holes in galactic
nuclei has been discussed in theoretical terms for about 30 years but only in
the past decade have we been able to detect such events in substantial numbers.
Thus, we are now starting to carry out observational tests of models for the
disruption. We are also formulating expectations for the inspiral and
disruption of white dwarfs by intermediate-mass black holes with masses $<
10^5\;{\rm M}_\odot$. Such events are very rich with information and open a new
window to intermediate-mass black holes, thought to live in dwarf galaxies and
star clusters. They can inform us of the demographics of intermediate-mass
black holes, stellar populations and dynamics in their immediate vicinity, and
the physics of accretion of hydrogen-deficient material. The combination of
upcoming transient surveys using ground-based, electromagnetic observatories
and low-frequency gravitational wave observations is ideal for exploiting tidal
disruptions of white dwarfs. The detection rate of gravitational wave signals,
optimistically, may reach a few dozen per year in a volume up to $z\approx
0.1$. Gravitational wave observations are particularly useful because they
yield the masses of the objects involved and allow determination of the spin of
the black hole, affording tests of physical models for black hole formation and
growth. They also give us advance warning of the electromagnetic flares by
weeks or more. The right computing infrastructure for modern models for the
disruption process and event rates will allow us to make the most of the
upcoming observing facilities.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05641v1
Galaxy Winds in the Age of Hyperdimensional Astrophysics
The past decade began with the first light of ALMA and will end at the start
of the new era of hyperdimensional astrophysics. Our community-wide movement
toward highly multiwavelength and multidimensional datasets has enabled immense
progress in each science frontier identified by the 2010 Decadal Survey,
particularly with regard to black hole feedback and the cycle of baryons in
galaxies. Facilities like ALMA and the next generation of integral field unit
(IFU) spectrographs together enable mapping the physical conditions and
kinematics of warm ionized and cold molecular gas in galaxies in unprecedented
detail (Fig. 1). JWST's launch at the start of the coming decade will push this
capability to the rest-frame UV at redshifts z > 6, mapping the birth of stars
in the first galaxies at cosmic dawn. Understanding of their subsequent
evolution, however, now awaits an ability to map the processes that transform
galaxies directly, rather than the consequences of those processes in
isolation. In this paper, we argue that doing so requires an equivalent
revolution in spatially resolved spectroscopy for the hot plasma that pervades
galaxies, the atmospheres in which they reside, and the winds that are the
engines of their evolution.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05648v1
Magnetars as Astrophysical Laboratories of Extreme Quantum
  Electrodynamics: The Case for a Compton Telescope
A next generation of Compton and pair telescopes that improve MeV-band
detection sensitivity by more than a decade beyond current instrumental
capabilities will open up new insights into a variety of astrophysical source
classes. Among these are magnetars, the most highly magnetic of the neutron
star zoo, which will serve as a prime science target for a new mission
surveying the MeV window. This paper outlines the core questions pertaining to
magnetars that can be addressed by such a technology. These range from global
magnetar geometry and population trends, to incisive probes of hard X-ray
emission locales, to providing cosmic laboratories for spectral and
polarimetric testing of exotic predictions of QED, principally the prediction
of the splitting of photons and magnetic pair creation. Such fundamental
physics cannot yet be discerned in terrestrial experiments. State of the art
modeling of the persistent hard X-ray tail emission in magnetars is presented
to outline the case for powerful diagnostics using Compton polarimeters. The
case highlights an inter-disciplinary opportunity to seed discovery at the
interface between astronomy and physics.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1902.10263v1
Relativistic Jets in the Accretion & Collimation Zone: New Challenges
  Enabled by New Instruments
Jets are a ubiquitous part of the accretion process, seen in a wide variety
of objects ranging from active galaxies (AGN) to X-ray binary stars and even
newly formed stars. AGN jets are accelerated by the supermassive black hole of
their host galaxy by a coupling between the magnetic field and inflowing
material. They are the source for many exciting phenomena and can profoundly
influence the larger galaxy and surrounding cluster.
  This White Paper points out what advances can be achieved in the field by new
technologies, concentrating on the zone where jets are accelerated to
relativistic speeds and collimated. The ngVLA and new space VLBI missions will
give higher angular resolution, sensitivity and fidelity in the radio,
penetrating this zone for additional objects and allowing us to resolve
fundamental questions over the physics of jet acceleration and collimation.
Interferometry in other bands would allow us to probe directly flaring
components. We also emphasize the need for polarimetry, which is essential to
revealing the role and configuration of magnetic fields.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.02574v1
X-rays Studies of the Solar System
X-ray observatories contribute fundamental advances in Solar System studies
by probing Sun-object interactions, developing planet and satellite surface
composition maps, probing global magnetospheric dynamics, and tracking
astrochemical reactions. Despite these crucial results, the technological
limitations of current X-ray instruments hinder the overall scope and impact
for broader scientific application of X-ray observations both now and in the
coming decade. Implementation of modern advances in X-ray optics will provide
improvements in effective area, spatial resolution, and spectral resolution for
future instruments. These improvements will usher in a truly transformative era
of Solar System science through the study of X-ray emission.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04496v1
Astrophysics and Cosmology with Line-Intensity Mapping
Line-Intensity Mapping is an emerging technique which promises new insights
into the evolution of the Universe, from star formation at low redshifts to the
epoch of reionization and cosmic dawn. It measures the integrated emission of
atomic and molecular spectral lines from galaxies and the intergalactic medium
over a broad range of frequencies, using instruments with aperture requirements
that are greatly relaxed relative to surveys for single objects. A coordinated,
comprehensive, multi-line intensity-mapping experimental effort can efficiently
probe over 80% of the volume of the observable Universe - a feat beyond the
reach of other methods. Line-intensity mapping will uniquely address a wide
array of pressing mysteries in galaxy evolution, cosmology, and fundamental
physics. Among them are the cosmic history of star formation and galaxy
evolution, the compositions of the interstellar and intergalactic media, the
physical processes that take place during the epoch of reionization,
cosmological inflation, the validity of Einstein's gravity theory on the
largest scales, the nature of dark energy and the origin of dark matter.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04531v1
The hidden circumgalactic medium
The cycling of baryons in and out of galaxies is what ultimately drives
galaxy formation and evolution. The circumgalactic medium (CGM) represents the
interface between the interstellar medium and the cosmic web, hence its
properties are directly shaped by the baryon cycle. Although traditionally the
CGM is thought to consist of warm and hot gas, recent breakthroughs are
presenting a new scenario according to which an important fraction of its mass
may reside in the cold atomic and molecular phase. This would represent fuel
that is readily available for star formation, with crucial implications for
feeding and feedback processes in galaxies. However, such cold CGM, especially
in local galaxies where its projected size on sky is expected to be of several
arcminutes, cannot be imaged by ALMA due to interferometric spatial scale
filtering of large-scale structures. We show that the only way to probe the
multiphase CGM including its coldest component is through a large (e.g. 50-m)
single dish (sub-)mm telescope.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04635v1
The warm and dense Galaxy - tracing the formation of dense cloud
  structures out to the Galactic Center
The past two decades have seen extensive surveys of the far-infrared to
submillimeter continuum emission in the plane of our Galaxy. We line out
prospects for the coming decade for corresponding molecular and atomic line
surveys which are needed to fully understand the formation of the dense
structures that give birth to clusters and stars out of the diffuse
interstellar medium. We propose to work towards Galaxy wide surveys in mid-J CO
lines to trace shocks from colliding clouds, Galaxy-wide surveys for atomic
Carbon lines in order to get a detailed understanding of the relation of atomic
and molecular gas in clouds, and to perform extensive surveys of the structure
of the dense parts of molecular clouds to understand the importance of
filaments/fibers over the full range of Galactic environments and to study how
dense cloud cores are formed from the filaments. This work will require a large
(50m) Single Dish submillimeter telescope equipped with massively multipixel
spectrometer arrays, such as envisaged by the AtLAST project.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04691v1
Radio Time-Domain Signatures of Magnetar Birth
The last decade has seen the rapid, concurrent development of new classes of
energetic astrophysical transients, including Fast Radio Bursts, Superluminous
Supernovae, and ultralong gamma-ray bursts. We consider the implications of an
emerging consensus on the origin of these diverse phenomena as different
signatures of magnetar birth. We describe how magnetar-powered radio transients
from milliseconds to gigaseconds will be used to address diverse physical
questions related to the stellar evolution and death, the circum- and
intergalactic medium, and fundamental physics on scales ranging from the
quantum to cosmological. We argue that high-sensitivity radio interferometer
concepts in development will be critical to accessing this science. There is
also a growing need for scientists with expertise in new statistical tools and
software techniques.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04730v1
Gravitational wave cosmology and astrophysics with large spectroscopic
  galaxy surveys
During the next decade, gravitational waves will be observed from hundreds of
binary inspiral events. When the redshifts of the host galaxies are known,
these events can be used as `standard sirens', sensitive to the expansion rate
of the Universe. Measurements of the Hubble constant $H_0$ from standard sirens
can be done independently of other cosmological probes, and events occurring at
$z<0.1$ will allow us to infer $H_0$ independently of cosmological models. The
next generation of spectroscopic galaxy surveys will play a crucial role in
reducing systematic uncertainties in $H_0$ from standard sirens, particularly
for the numerous `dark sirens' which do not have an electromagnetic
counterpart. In combination with large spectroscopic data sets, standard sirens
with an EM counterpart are expected to constrain $H_0$ to $\sim 1-2\%$
precision within the next decade. This is competitive with the best estimates
of $H_0$ obtained to date and will help illuminate the current tension between
existing measurements. Information on the galaxies that host the gravitational
wave events will also shed light on the origin and evolution of compact object
binaries.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04743v1
Dynamical Masses for a Complete Census of Local Dwarf Galaxies
The 2020s are poised to continue the past two decades of significant advances
based on observations of dwarf galaxies in the nearby universe. Upcoming
wide-field photometric surveys will probe substantially deeper than previous
data sets, pushing the discovery frontier for new dwarf galaxies to fainter
magnitudes, lower surface brightnesses, and larger distances. These dwarfs will
be compelling targets for testing models of galaxy formation and cosmology,
including the properties of dark matter and possible modifications to gravity.
However, most of the science that can be extracted from nearby dwarf galaxies
relies on spectroscopy with large telescopes. We suggest that maximizing the
scientific impact of near-future imaging surveys will require both major
spectroscopic surveys on 6-10m telescopes and multiplexed spectroscopy with
even larger apertures.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04833v1
Spectroscopic Observations of the Fermi Bubbles
Two giant plasma lobes, known as the Fermi Bubbles, extend 10 kpc above and
below the Galactic Center. Since their discovery in X-rays in 2003 (and in
gamma-rays in 2010), the Bubbles have been recognized as a new morphological
feature of our Galaxy and a striking example of energetic feedback from the
nuclear region. They remain the subject of intense research and their origin
via AGN activity or nuclear star formation is still debated. While imaging at
gamma-ray, X-ray, microwave, and radio wavelengths has revealed their
morphology and energetics, spectroscopy at radio and UV wavelengths has
recently been used to study the kinematics and chemical abundances of
outflowing gas clouds embedded in the Bubbles (the nuclear wind). Here we
identify the scientific themes that have emerged from the spectroscopic
studies, determine key open questions, and describe further observations needed
in the next ten years to characterize the basic physical conditions in the
nuclear wind and its impact on the rest of the Galaxy. Nuclear winds are
ubiquitous in galaxies, and the Galactic Center represents the best opportunity
to study the constitution and structure of a nuclear wind in close detail.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04839v1
Historical astronomical data: urgent need for preservation, digitization
  enabling scientific exploration
Over the past decades and even centuries, the astronomical community has
accumulated a signif-icant heritage of recorded observations of a great many
astronomical objects. Those records con-tain irreplaceable information about
long-term evolutionary and non-evolutionary changes in our Universe, and their
preservation and digitization is vital. Unfortunately, most of those data risk
becoming degraded and thence totally lost. We hereby call upon the astronomical
community and US funding agencies to recognize the gravity of the situation,
and to commit to an interna-tional preservation and digitization efforts
through comprehensive long-term planning supported by adequate resources,
prioritizing where the expected scientific gains, vulnerability of the
origi-nals and availability of relevant infrastructure so dictates. The
importance and urgency of this issue has been recognized recently by General
Assembly XXX of the International Astronomical Union (IAU) in its Resolution
B3: "on preservation, digitization and scientific exploration of his-torical
astronomical data". We outline the rationale of this promotion, provide
examples of new science through successful recovery efforts, and review the
potential losses to science if nothing it done.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04902v1
Intermediate-Mass Black Holes in Extragalactic Globular Clusters
Intermediate-mass black holes (IMBHs) have masses of about 100 to 100,000
solar masses. They remain elusive. Observing IMBHs in present-day globular
clusters (GCs) would validate a formation channel for seed black holes in the
early universe and inform event predictions for gravitational wave facilities.
Reaching a large number of GCs per galaxy is key, as models predict that only a
few percent will have retained their gravitational-wave fostering IMBHs.
Related, many galaxies will need to be examined to establish a robust sample of
IMBHs in GCs. These needs can be meet by using a next-generation Very Large
Array (ngVLA) to search for IMBHs in the GCs of hundreds of galaxies out to a
distance of 25 Mpc. These galaxies hold tens of thousands of GCs in total. We
describe how to convert an ngVLA signal from a GC to an IMBH mass according to
a semi-empirical accretion model. Simulations of gas flows in GCs would help to
improve the robustness of the conversion. Also, self-consistent dynamical
models of GCs, with stellar and binary evolution in the presence of IMBHs,
would help to improve IMBH retention predictions for present-day GCs.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05085v1
Astro2020 Science White Paper: Science at the edges: internal kinematics
  of globular clusters' external fields
The outer regions of globular clusters can enable us to answer many
fundamental questions concerning issues ranging from the formation and
evolution of clusters and their multiple stellar populations to the study of
stars near and beyond the hydrogen-burning limit and to the dynamics of the
Milky Way. The outskirts of globular clusters are still uncharted territories
observationally. A very efficient way to explore them is through high-precision
proper motions of low-mass stars over a large field of view. The Wide Field
InfraRed Survey Telescope (WFIRST) combines all these characteristics in a
single telescope, making it the best observational tool to uncover the wealth
of information contained in the clusters' outermost regions.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05150v1
High-Dimensional Dust Mapping
Galactic interstellar dust has a profound impact not only on our observations
of objects throughout the Universe, but also on the morphology, star formation,
and chemical evolution of the Galaxy. The advent of massive imaging and
spectroscopic surveys (particularly in the infrared) places us on the threshold
of being able to map the properties and dynamics of dust and the interstellar
medium (ISM) in three dimensions throughout the Milky Way disk and bulge. These
developments will enable a fundamentally new understanding of dust properties,
including how grains respond to their local environment and how those
environments affect dust attenuation of background objects of interest.
Distance-resolved maps of dust motion also hold great promise for tracing the
flow of interstellar material throughout the Galaxy on a variety of scales,
from bar-streaming motions to the collapse and dissolution of individual
molecular clouds. These advances require optical and infrared imaging of stars
throughout the Galactic midplane, stretching many kiloparsecs from the Sun,
matched with very dense spectroscopic coverage to probe the ISM's fine-grained
structure.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05478v1
Polarization in Disks
Polarized dust emission outside of disks reveal the magnetic field morphology
of molecular clouds. Within disks, however, polarized dust emission can arise
from very different mechanisms (e.g., self-scattering), and each of them are
useful for constraining physical properties in the disk. For example, these
mechanisms allow us to constrain the disk grain size distributions and
grain/disk geometries, independent from current methods of measuring these
parameters. To accurately model these features and disentangle the various
polarization mechanisms, multiwavelength observations at very high resolution
and sensitivity are required. With significant upgrades to current
interferometric facilities, we can understand how grains evolve in disks during
the planet formation process.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05606v1
The Future Landscape of High-Redshift Galaxy Cluster Science
Modern galaxy cluster science is a multi-wavelength endeavor with
cornerstones provided by X-ray, optical/IR, mm, and radio measurements. In
combination, these observations enable the construction of large, clean,
complete cluster catalogs, and provide precise redshifts and robust mass
calibration. The complementary nature of these multi-wavelength data
dramatically reduces the impact of systematic effects that limit the utility of
measurements made in any single waveband. The future of multi-wavelength
cluster science is compelling, with cluster catalogs set to expand by orders of
magnitude in size, and extend, for the first time, into the high-redshift
regime where massive, virialized structures first formed. Unlocking
astrophysical and cosmological insight from the coming catalogs will require
new observing facilities that combine high spatial and spectral resolution with
large collecting areas, as well as concurrent advances in simulation modeling
campaigns. Together, future multi-wavelength observations will resolve the
thermodynamic structure in and around the first groups and clusters,
distinguishing the signals from active and star-forming galaxies, and unveiling
the interrelated stories of galaxy evolution and structure formation during the
epoch of peak cosmic activity.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05660v1
Cosmic Rays and Interstellar Medium with Gamma-Ray Observations at MeV
  Energies
Latest precise cosmic-ray (CR) measurements and present gamma-ray
observations have started challenging our understanding of CR transport and
interaction in the Galaxy. Moreover, because the density of CRs is similar to
the density of the magnetic field, gas, and starlight in the interstellar
medium (ISM), CRs are expected to affect the ISM dynamics, including the
physical and chemical processes that determine transport and star formation. In
this context, observations of gamma-ray emission at MeV energies produced by
the low-energy CRs are very important and urgent. A telescope covering the
energy range between ~0.1 MeV and a few GeV with a sensitivity more than an
order of magnitude better than previous instruments would allow for the first
time to study in detail the low-energy CRs, providing information on their
sources, their spectra throughout the Galaxy, their abundances, transport
properties, and their role on the evolution of the Galaxy and star formation.
Here we discuss the scientific prospects for studies of CRs, ISM (gas,
interstellar photons, and magnetic fields) and associated gamma-ray emissions
with such an instrument.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05745v1
The Nature of Low-Density Star Formation
How do stars manage to form within low-density, HI-dominated gas? Such
environments provide a laboratory for studying star formation with physical
conditions distinct from starbursts and the metal-rich disks of spiral galaxies
where most effort has been invested. Here we outline fundamental open questions
about the nature of star formation at low-density. We describe the wide-field,
high-resolution UV-optical-IR-radio observations of stars, star clusters and
gas clouds in nearby galaxies needed in the 2020's to provide definitive
answers, essential for development of a complete theory of star formation.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05765v1
Neutrinos, Cosmic Rays and the MeV Band
The possible association of the blazar TXS 0506+056 with a high-energy
neutrino detected by IceCube holds the tantalizing potential to answer three
astrophysical questions: 1. Where do high-energy neutrinos originate? 2. Where
are cosmic rays produced and accelerated? 3. What radiation mechanisms produce
the high-energy {\gamma}-rays in blazars? The MeV gamma-ray band holds the key
to these questions, because it is an excellent proxy for photo-hadronic
processes in blazar jets, which also produce neutrino counterparts. Variability
in MeV gamma-rays sheds light on the physical conditions and mechanisms that
take place in the particle acceleration sites in blazar jets. In addition,
hadronic blazar models also predict a high level of polarization fraction in
the MeV band, which can unambiguously distinguish the radiation mechanism.
Future MeV missions with a large field of view, high sensitivity, and
polarization capabilities will play a central role in multi-messenger
astronomy, since pointed, high-resolution telescopes will follow neutrino
alerts only when triggered by an all-sky instrument.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05845v1
Looking Under a Better Lamppost: MeV-scale Dark Matter Candidates
The era of precision cosmology has revealed that about 85% of the matter in
the universe is dark matter. Two well-motivated candidates are weakly
interacting massive particles (WIMPs) and weakly interacting sub-eV particles
(WISPs) (e.g. axions). Both WIMPs and WISPs possess distinct {\gamma}-ray
signatures. Over the last decade, data taken between 50 MeV to >300 GeV by the
Fermi Large Area Telescope (Fermi-LAT) have provided stringent constraints on
both classes of dark matter models. Thus far, there are no conclusive
detections. However, there is an intriguing {\gamma}-ray excess associated with
the Galactic center that could be explained by WIMP annihilation. At lower
energies, the poor angular resolution of the Fermi-LAT makes source
identification challenging, inhibiting our ability to more sensitively probe
both the Galactic center excess, as well as lower-mass WIMP and WISP models.
Additionally, targeted WISP searches (e.g., those probing supernovae and
blazars) would greatly benefit from enhanced energy resolution and polarization
measurements in the MeV range. To address these issues, a new telescope that is
optimized for MeV observations is needed. Such an instrument would allow us to
explore new areas of dark matter parameter space and provide unprecedented
access to its particle nature.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.06106v1
Supermassive black holes at high redshifts
MeV blazars are the most luminous persistent sources in the Universe and emit
most of their energy in the MeV band. These objects display very large jet
powers and accretion luminosities and are known to host black holes with a mass
often exceeding $10^9 M_{\odot}$. An MeV survey, performed by a new generation
MeV telescope which will bridge the entire energy and sensitivity gap between
the current generation of hard X-ray and gamma-ray instruments, will detect
$>$1000 MeV blazars up to a redshift of $z=5-6$. Here we show that this would
allow us: 1) to probe the formation and growth mechanisms of supermassive black
holes at high redshifts, 2) to pinpoint the location of the emission region in
powerful blazars, 3) to determine how accretion and black hole spin interplay
to power the jet.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04524v1
UV Diagnostics of Galaxies from the Peak of Star-Formation to the Epoch
  of Reionization
The rest-frame UV emission from massive stars contains a wealth of
information about the physical nature and conditions of star formation in
galaxies. Using studies of the rest-frame UV, the past decade has witnessed the
beginning of knowledge about the existence and properties of galaxies during
the first few billion years after the Big Bang. This period of history
corresponds to the formation of the first stars, the rapid formation of galaxy
stellar populations, the reionization of the IGM, the production and
dissemination of heavy elements, and the formation of the first black holes.
Massive stars in these galaxies drive all of these events, and their light
dominates the spectral energy distributions of galaxies. As we look to the
2020s, fundamental questions remain about the nature of these stellar
populations and their evolution, from just before the peak of the cosmic star
formation density (z~3), up to the epoch of reionization (z > 6). This next
decade will provide transformative gains both in our ability to identify
star-forming galaxies and accreting supermassive black holes at these early
epochs with imaging surveys in the rest-frame UV (e.g., LSST, WFIRST).
Ground-based, rest-frame UV spectroscopy on >20 m-class telescopes (e.g.,
GMT/TMT) offers the ability to investigate the astrophysical conditions in
galaxies at the earliest cosmic times. This includes studies of the evolution
in galaxy stellar populations, gas ionization (temperature, pressure),
metallicity, and interstellar (and circumgalactic) gas kinematics and covering
fractions. In this white paper, we describe the scientific prospects and the
requirements for research in this area.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05035v1
Measuring the Hubble Constant Near and Far in the Era of ELT's
Many of the fundamental physical constants in Physics, as a discipline, are
measured to exquisite levels of precision. The fundamental constants that
define Cosmology, however, are largely determined via a handful of independent
techniques that are applied to even fewer datasets. The history of the
measurement of the Hubble Constant (H0), which serves to anchor the expansion
history of the Universe to its current value, is an exemplar of the
difficulties of cosmological measurement; indeed, as we approach the centennial
of its first measurement, the quest for H0 still consumes a great number of
resources. In this white paper, we demonstrate how the approaching era of
Extremely Large Telescopes (ELTs) will transform the astrophysical measure of
H0 from the limited and few into a fundamentally new regime where (i) multiple,
independent techniques are employed with modest use of large aperture
facilities and (ii) 1% or better precision is readily attainable. This quantum
leap in how we approach H0 is due to the unparalleled sensitivity and spatial
resolution of ELT's and the ability to use integral field observations for
simultaneous spectroscopy and photometry, which together permit both familiar
and new techniques to effectively by-pass the conventional 'ladder' framework
to minimize total uncertainty. Three independent techniques are discussed --
(i) standard candles via a two-step distance ladder applied to metal, poor
stellar populations, (ii) standard clocks via gravitational lens cosmography,
and (iii) standard sirens via gravitational wave sources -- each of which can
reach 1% with relatively modest investment from 30-m class facilities.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.02595v1
A High-resolution SZ View of the Warm-Hot Universe
The Sunyaev-Zeldovich (SZ) effect was first predicted nearly five decades
ago, but has only recently become a mature tool for performing high resolution
studies of the warm and hot ionized gas in and between galaxies, groups, and
clusters. Galaxy groups and clusters are powerful probes of cosmology, and they
also serve as hosts for roughly half of the galaxies in the Universe. In this
white paper, we outline the advances in our understanding of thermodynamic and
kinematic properties of the warm-hot universe that can come in the next decade
through spatially and spectrally resolved measurements of the SZ effects. Many
of these advances will be enabled through new/upcoming millimeter/submillimeter
(mm/submm) instrumentation on existing facilities, but truly transformative
advances will require construction of new facilities with larger fields of view
and broad spectral coverage of the mm/submm bands.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04069v1
What we can learn from multi-band observations of black hole binaries
The LIGO/Virgo gravitational-wave (GW) interferometers have to-date detected
ten merging black hole (BH) binaries, some with masses considerably larger than
had been anticipated. Stellar-mass BH binaries at the high end of the observed
mass range (with "chirp mass" ${\cal M} \gtrsim 25 M_{\odot}$) should be
detectable by a space-based GW observatory years before those binaries become
visible to ground-based GW detectors. This white paper discusses some of the
synergies that result when the same binaries are observed by instruments in
space and on the ground. We consider intermediate-mass black hole binaries
(with total mass $M \sim 10^2 -10^4 M_{\odot}$) as well as stellar-mass black
hole binaries. We illustrate how combining space-based and ground-based data
sets can break degeneracies and thereby improve our understanding of the
binary's physical parameters. While early work focused on how space-based
observatories can forecast precisely when some mergers will be observed on the
ground, the reverse is also important: ground-based detections will allow us to
"dig deeper" into archived, space-based data to confidently identify black hole
inspirals whose signal-to-noise ratios were originally sub-threshold,
increasing the number of binaries observed in both bands by a factor of $\sim 4
- 7$.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05729v1
Opportunities for Astrophysical Science from the Inner and Outer Solar
  System
Astrophysical measurements away from the 1 AU orbit of Earth can enable
several astrophysical science cases that are challenging or impossible to
perform from Earthbound platforms, including: building a detailed understanding
of the extragalactic background light throughout the electromagnetic spectrum;
measurements of the properties of dust and ice in the inner and outer solar
system; determinations of the mass of planets and stellar remnants far from
luminous stars using gravitational microlensing; and stable time-domain
astronomy. Though potentially transformative for astrophysics, opportunities to
fly instrumentation capable of these measurements are rare, and a mission to
the distant solar system that includes instrumentation expressly designed to
perform astrophysical science, or even one primarily for a different purpose
but capable of precise astronomical investigation, has not yet been flown. In
this White Paper, we describe the science motivations for this kind of
measurement, and advocate for future flight opportunities that permit
intersectional collaboration and cooperation to make these science
investigations a reality.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05569v1
Positron Annihilation in the Galaxy
The 511 keV line from positron annihilation in the Galaxy was the first
$\gamma$-ray line detected to originate from outside our solar system. Going
into the fifth decade since the discovery, the source of positrons is still
unconfirmed and remains one of the enduring mysteries in $\gamma$-ray
astronomy. With a large flux of $\sim$10$^{-3}$ $\gamma$/cm$^{2}$/s, after 15
years in operation INTEGRAL/SPI has detected the 511 keV line at $>50\sigma$
and has performed high-resolution spectral studies which conclude that Galactic
positrons predominantly annihilate at low energies in warm phases of the
interstellar medium. The results from imaging are less certain, but show a
spatial distribution with a strong concentration in the center of the Galaxy.
The observed emission from the Galactic disk has low surface brightness and the
scale height is poorly constrained, therefore, the shear number of annihilating
positrons in our Galaxy is still not well know. Positrons produced in
$\beta^+$-decay of nucleosynthesis products, such as $^{26}$Al, can account for
some of the annihilation emission in the disk, but the observed spatial
distribution, in particular the excess in the Galactic bulge, remains difficult
to explain. Additionally, one of the largest uncertainties in these studies is
the unknown distance that positrons propagate before annihilation. In this
paper, we will summarize the current knowledge base of Galactic positrons, and
discuss how next-generation instruments could finally provide the answers.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.03686v1
The unique potential of extreme mass-ratio inspirals for
  gravitational-wave astronomy
The inspiral of a stellar-mass compact object into a massive ($\sim
10^{4}$-$10^{7} M_{\odot}$) black hole produces an intricate gravitational-wave
signal. Due to the extreme-mass ratios involved, these systems complete $\sim
10^{4}$-$10^{5}$ orbits, most of them in the strong-field region of the massive
black hole, emitting in the frequency range $\sim10^{-4}-1~$Hz. This makes them
prime sources for the space-based observatory LISA (Laser Interferometer Space
Antenna). LISA observations will enable high-precision measurements of the
physical characteristics of these extreme-mass-ratio inspirals (EMRIs):
redshifted masses, massive black hole spin and orbital eccentricity can be
determined with fractional errors $\sim 10^{-4}$-$10^{-6}$, the luminosity
distance with better than $\sim 10\%$ precision, and the sky localization to
within a few square degrees. EMRIs will provide valuable information about
stellar dynamics in galactic nuclei, as well as precise data about massive
black hole populations, including the distribution of masses and spins. They
will enable percent-level measurements of the multipolar structure of massive
black holes, precisely testing the strong-gravity properties of their
spacetimes. EMRIs may also provide cosmographical data regarding the expansion
of the Universe if inferred source locations can be correlated with galaxy
catalogs.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04417v1
Multimessenger science opportunities with mHz gravitational waves
LISA will open the mHz band of gravitational waves (GWs) to the astronomy
community. The strong gravity which powers the variety of GW sources in this
band is also crucial in a number of important astrophysical processes at the
current frontiers of astronomy. These range from the beginning of structure
formation in the early universe, through the origin and cosmic evolution of
massive black holes in concert with their galactic environments, to the
evolution of stellar remnant binaries in the Milky Way and in nearby galaxies.
These processes and their associated populations also drive current and future
observations across the electromagnetic (EM) spectrum. We review opportunities
for science breakthroughs, involving either direct coincident EM+GW
observations, or indirect multimessenger studies. We argue that for the US
community to fully capitalize on the opportunities from the LISA mission, the
US efforts should be accompanied by a coordinated and sustained program of
multi-disciplinary science investment, following the GW data through to its
impact on broad areas of astrophysics. Support for LISA-related multimessenger
observers and theorists should be sized appropriately for a flagship
observatory and may be coordinated through a dedicated mHz GW research center.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04518v1
Unveiling the Phase Transition of the Universe During the Reionization
  Epoch with Lyman-alpha
The epoch of reionization (6 < z < 10) marks the period in our universe when
the first large galaxies grew to fruition, and began to affect the universe
around them. Massive stars, and potentially accreting supermassive black holes,
filled the universe with ionizing radiation, burning off the haze of neutral
gas that had filled the intergalactic medium (IGM) since recombination
(z~1000). The evolution of this process constrains key properties of these
earliest luminous sources, thus observationally constraining reionization is a
key science goal for the next decade. The measurement of Lyman-alpha emission
from photometrically-identified galaxies is a highly constraining probe of
reionization, as a neutral IGM will resonantly scatter these photons, reducing
detectability. While significant work has been done with 8-10m telescopes,
these observations require extremely large telescopes (ELTs); the flux limits
available from today's 10m class telescopes are sufficient for only the
brightest known galaxies (m < 26). Ultra-deep surveys with the Giant Magellan
Telescope (GMT) and Thirty Meter Telescope (TMT) will be capable of detecting
Lyman-alpha emission from galaxies 2-3 magnitudes fainter than today's deepest
surveys. Wide-field fiber spectroscopy on the GMT combined with narrow-field
AO-assisted slit spectroscopy on the TMT will be able to probe the expected
size of ionized bubbles throughout the epoch of reionization, following up
degree scale deep imaging surveys with the Wide Field Infrared Space Telescope.
These data will provide the first resolved Lyman-alpha-based maps of the
ionized intergalactic medium throughout the epoch of reionization, constraining
models of both the temporal and spatial evolution of this phase change.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04550v1
Unveiling the Galaxy Cluster - Cosmic Web Connection with X-ray
  observations in the Next Decade
In recent years, the outskirts of galaxy clusters have emerged as one of the
new frontiers and unique laboratories for studying the growth of large scale
structure in the universe. Modern cosmological hydrodynamical simulations make
firm and testable predictions of the thermodynamic and chemical evolution of
the X-ray emitting intracluster medium. However, recent X-ray and
Sunyaev-Zeldovich effect observations have revealed enigmatic disagreements
with theoretical predictions, which have motivated deeper investigations of a
plethora of astrophysical processes operating in the virialization region in
the cluster outskirts. Much of the physics of cluster outskirts is
fundamentally different from that of cluster cores, which has been the main
focus of X-ray cluster science over the past several decades. A next-generation
X-ray telescope, equipped with sub-arcsecond spatial resolution over a large
field of view along with a low and stable instrumental background, is required
in order to reveal the full story of the growth of galaxy clusters and the
cosmic web and their applications for cosmology.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04580v1
Mapping Cosmic Dawn and Reionization: Challenges and Synergies
Cosmic dawn and the Epoch of Reionization (EoR) are among the least explored
observational eras in cosmology: a time at which the first galaxies and
supermassive black holes formed and reionized the cold, neutral Universe of the
post-recombination era. With current instruments, only a handful of the
brightest galaxies and quasars from that time are detectable as individual
objects, due to their extreme distances. Fortunately, a multitude of
multi-wavelength intensity mapping measurements, ranging from the redshifted 21
cm background in the radio to the unresolved X-ray background, contain a
plethora of synergistic information about this elusive era. The coming decade
will likely see direct detections of inhomogenous reionization with CMB and 21
cm observations, and a slew of other probes covering overlapping areas and
complementary physical processes will provide crucial additional information
and cross-validation. To maximize scientific discovery and return on
investment, coordinated survey planning and joint data analysis should be a
high priority, closely coupled to computational models and theoretical
predictions.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04585v1
Cool, evolved stars: results, challenges, and promises for the next
  decade
Cool, evolved stars are the main source of chemical enrichment of the
interstellar medium (ISM), and understanding their mass loss and structure
offers a unique opportunity to study the cycle of matter in the Universe.
Pulsation, convection, and other dynamic processes in cool evolved stars create
an atmosphere where molecules and dust can form, including those necessary to
the formation of life (e.g.~Carbon-bearing molecules). Understanding the
structure and composition of these stars is thus vital to several aspects of
stellar astrophysics, ranging from ISM studies to modeling young galaxies and
exoplanet research.
  Recent modeling efforts and increasingly precise observations now reveal that
our understanding of cool stars photospheric, chromospheric, and atmospheric
structures is limited by inadequate knowledge of the dynamic and chemical
processes at work. Here we outline promising scientific opportunities for the
next decade.
  We identify and discuss the following main opportunities: (1) identify and
model the physical processes that must be included in current 1D and 3D
atmosphere models of cool, evolved stars; (2) refine our understanding of
photospheric, chromospheric, and outer atmospheric regions of cool evolved
stars, their properties and parameters, through high-resolution spectroscopic
observations, and interferometric observations at high angular resolution; (3)
include the neglected role of chromospheric activity in the mass loss process
of red giant branch and red super giant stars, and understand the role played
by their magnetic fields; (4) identify the important shaping mechanisms for
planetary nebulae and their relation with the parent asymptotic giant branch
stars.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04589v1
Near-Earth Supernova Explosions: Evidence, Implications, and
  Opportunities
There is now solid experimental evidence of at least one supernova explosion
within 100 pc of Earth within the last few million years, from measurements of
the short-lived isotope 60Fe in widespread deep-ocean samples, as well as in
the lunar regolith and cosmic rays. This is the first established example of a
specific dated astrophysical event outside the Solar System having a measurable
impact on the Earth, offering new probes of stellar evolution, nuclear
astrophysics, the astrophysics of the solar neighborhood, cosmic-ray sources
and acceleration, multi-messenger astronomy, and astrobiology.
Interdisciplinary connections reach broadly to include heliophysics, geology,
and evolutionary biology. Objectives for the future include pinning down the
nature and location of the established near-Earth supernova explosions, seeking
evidence for others, and searching for other short-lived isotopes such as 26Al
and 244Pu. The unique information provided by geological and lunar detections
of radioactive 60Fe to assess nearby supernova explosions make now a compelling
time for the astronomy community to advocate for supporting multi-disciplinary,
cross-cutting research programs.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04590v1
Cyberinfrastructure Requirements to Enhance Multi-messenger Astrophysics
The identification of the electromagnetic counterpart of the gravitational
wave event, GW170817, and discovery of neutrinos and gamma-rays from TXS
0506+056 heralded the new era of multi-messenger astrophysics. As the number of
multi-messenger events rapidly grow over the next decade, the
cyberinfrastructure requirements to handle the increase in data rates, data
volume, need for event follow up, and analysis across the different messengers
will also explosively grow. The cyberinfrastructure requirements to enhance
multi-messenger astrophysics will both be a major challenge and opportunity for
astronomers, physicists, computer scientists and cyberinfrastructure
specialists. Here we outline some of these requirements and argue for a
distributed cyberinfrastructure institute for multi-messenger astrophysics to
meet these challenges.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04597v2
Probing Macro-Scale Gas Motions and Turbulence in Diffuse Cosmic Plasmas
Clusters of galaxies, the largest collapsed structures in the Universe, are
located at the intersection of extended filaments of baryons and dark matter.
Cosmological accretion onto clusters through large scale filaments adds
material at cluster outskirts. Kinetic energy in the form of bulk motions and
turbulence due to this accretion provides a form of pressure support against
gravity, supplemental to thermal pressure. Significant amount of non-thermal
pressure support could bias cluster masses derived assuming hydrostatic
equilibrium, the primary proxy for cluster cosmology studies. Sensitive
measurements of Doppler broadening and shift of astrophysical lines, and the
relative fluctuations in thermodynamical quantities (e.g., density, pressure,
and entropy) are primary diagnostic tools. Forthcoming planned and proposed
X-ray (with large etendue, throughput, and high spectral resolution) and SZ
observatories will provide crucial information on the assembly and
virialisation processes of clusters, involving turbulent eddies cascading at
various spatial scales and larger gas bulk motions in their external regions to
the depth or their potential wells.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04607v1
High-Energy Polarimetry - a new window to probe extreme physics in AGN
  jets
The constantly improving sensitivity of ground-based and space-borne
observatories has made possible the detection of high-energy emission (X-rays
and gamma-rays) from several thousands of extragalactic sources. Enormous
progress has been made in measuring the continuum flux enabling us to perform
imaging, spectral and timing studies. An important remaining challenge for
high-energy astronomy is measuring polarization. The capability to measure
polarization is being realized currently at X-ray energies (e.g. with IXPE),
and sensitive gamma-ray telescopes capable of measuring polarization, such as
AMEGO, AdEPT, e-ASTROGAM, etc., are being developed. These future gamma-ray
telescopes will probe the radiation mechanisms and magnetic fields of
relativistic jets from active galactic nuclei at spatial scales much smaller
than the angular resolution achieved with continuum observations of the
instrument. In this white paper, we discuss the scientific potentials of
high-energy polarimetry, especially gamma-ray polarimetry, including the
theoretical implications, and observational technology advances being made. In
particular, we will explore the primary scientific opportunities and wealth of
information expected from synergy of multi-wavelength polarimetry that will be
brought to multi-messenger astronomy.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04742v1
Testing the Nature of Dark Matter with Extremely Large Telescopes
For nearly 40 years, dark matter has been widely assumed to be cold and
collisionless. Cold dark matter models make fundamental predictions for the
behavior of dark matter on small (<10 kpc) scales. These predictions include
cuspy density profiles at the centers of dark matter halos and a halo mass
function that increases as dN/dM ~ M^-1.9 down to very small masses. We suggest
two observational programs relying on extremely large telescopes to critically
test these predictions, and thus shed new light on the nature of dark matter.
(1) Combining adaptive optics-enabled imaging with deep spectroscopy to measure
the three-dimensional motions of stars within a sample of Local Group dwarf
galaxies that are the cleanest dark matter laboratories known in the nearby
universe. From these observations the inner slope of the dark matter density
profile can be determined with an accuracy of 0.20 dex, enabling a central cusp
to be distinguished from a core at 5 sigma significance. (2)
Diffraction-limited AO imaging and integral field spectroscopy of
gravitationally lensed galaxies and quasars to quantify the abundance of dark
substructures in the halos of the lens galaxies and along the line of sight.
Observations of 50 lensed arcs and 50 multiply-imaged quasars will be
sufficient to measure the halo mass function over the range 10^7 < M < 10^10
Msun at cosmological scales, independent of the baryonic and stellar
composition of those structures. These two observational probes provide
complementary information about the small scale structure, with a joint
self-consistent analysis mitigating limitations of either probe. This program
will produce the strongest existing constraints on the properties of dark
matter on small scales, allowing conclusive tests of alternative warm, fuzzy,
and self-interacting dark matter models.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05077v1
Protoplanetary Disk Science Enabled by Extremely Large Telescopes
The processes that transform gas and dust in circumstellar disks into diverse
exoplanets remain poorly understood. One key pathway is to study exoplanets as
they form in their young ($\sim$few~Myr) natal disks. Extremely Large
Telescopes (ELTs) such as GMT, TMT, or ELT, can be used to establish the
initial chemical conditions, locations, and timescales of planet formation, via
(1)~measuring the physical and chemical conditions in protoplanetary disks
using infrared spectroscopy and (2)~studying planet-disk interactions using
imaging and spectro-astrometry. Our current knowledge is based on a limited
sample of targets, representing the brightest, most extreme cases, and thus
almost certainly represents an incomplete understanding. ELTs will play a
transformational role in this arena, thanks to the high spatial and spectral
resolution data they will deliver. We recommend a key science program to
conduct a volume-limited survey of high-resolution spectroscopy and
high-contrast imaging of the nearest protoplanetary disks that would result in
an unbiased, holistic picture of planet formation as it occurs.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05128v2
The Next Generation of Cosmological Measurements with Type Ia Supernovae
While Type Ia Supernovae (SNe Ia) are one of the most mature cosmological
probes, the next era promises to be extremely exciting in the number of
different ways SNe Ia are used to measure various cosmological parameters. Here
we review the experiments in the 2020s that will yield orders of magnitudes
more SNe Ia, and the new understandings and capabilities to constrain
systematic uncertainties at a level to match these statistics. We then discuss
five different cosmological probes with SNe Ia: the conventional Hubble diagram
for measuring dark energy properties, the distance ladder for measuring the
Hubble constant, peculiar velocities and weak lensing for measuring sigma8 and
strong-lens measurements of H0 and other cosmological parameters. For each of
these probes, we discuss the experiments that will provide the best
measurements and also the SN Ia-related systematics that affect each one.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05161v1
Cosmic voids: a novel probe to shed light on our Universe
Cosmic voids, the less dense patches of the Universe, are promising
laboratories to extract cosmological information. Thanks to their unique low
density character, voids are extremely sensitive to diffuse components such as
neutrinos and dark energy, and represent ideal environments to study
modifications of gravity, where the effects of such modifications are expected
to be more prominent. Robust void-related observables, including for example
redshift-space distortions (RSD) and weak lensing around voids, are a promising
way to chase and test new physics. Cosmological analysis of the large-scale
structure of the Universe predominantly relies on the high density regions.
Current and upcoming surveys are designed to optimize the extraction of
cosmological information from these zones, but leave voids under-exploited. A
dense, large area spectroscopic survey with imaging capabilities is ideal to
exploit the power of voids fully. Besides helping illuminate the nature of dark
energy, modified gravity, and neutrinos, this survey will give access to a
detailed map of under-dense regions, providing an unprecedented opportunity to
observe and study a so far under-explored galaxy population.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05319v1
Imaging Giant Protoplanets with the ELTs
We have now accumulated a wealth of observations of the planet-formation
environment and of mature planetary systems. These data allow us to test and
refine theories of gas-giant planet formation by placing constraints on the
conditions and timescale of this process. Yet a number of fundamental questions
remain unanswered about how protoplanets accumulate material, their
photospheric properties and compositions, and how they interact with
protoplanetary disks. While we have begun to detect protoplanet candidates
during the last several years, we are presently only sensitive to the widest
separation, highest mass / accretion rate cases. Current observing facilities
lack the angular resolution and inner working angle to probe the few-AU orbital
separations where giant planet formation is thought to be most efficient. They
also lack the contrast to detect accretion rates that would form lower mass gas
giants and ice giants. Instruments and telescopes coming online over the next
decade will provide high contrast in the inner giant-planet-forming regions
around young stars, allowing us to build a protoplanet census and to
characterize planet formation in detail for the first time.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05666v1
Extremely metal-poor stars: the need for UV spectra
Our current understanding of the chemical evolution of the Universe is that a
first generation of stars was formed out of primordial material, completely
devoid of metals (Pop III stars). This first population of stars comprised
massive stars that exploded as supernovae disseminating the metals they
synthesised in the interstellar medium. These massive stars are long dead and
cannot be observed in the local Universe. Among very metal poor stars
(metallicity below -2.0) we expect to find the direct descendants of these
pristine metal factories. The chemical composition of these stars provides us
indirect information on the nature of the Pop III stars, their masses,
luminosities and mode of explosion. The constraints are stronger if the
chemical inventory is more complete, more chemical elements and isotopic ratios
are measured for each star. Unfortunately the lower the metallicity of the
star, the weaker the lines. Access to the space UV spectral range gives us
crucial supplementary information. To start with, it allows access to some very
strong Fe lines that may allow to measure the abundance of this element in
stars for which this was not possible from the ground-accessible UV spectra.
The number of such stars is steadily increasing. Next the UV range allows us to
measure elements that cannot be measured from ground-based spectra like P, Ge,
As, Se, Cd, Te, Lu, Os, Ir, Pt, Au. In addition it is fundamental for measuring
other elements that can be accessed from earth, but with great difficulty, like
C, S, Cu, Zn, Pb. The Hubble space telescope, with its limited collecting power
made this possible only for very few stars. Old metal poor stars are cool, of
spectral types F,G,K, and their UV flux is low. The availability of a UV high
resolution spectrograph fed by a large area space telescope will open an
unprecedented window on the early evolution of our Galaxy.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.06034v1
Illuminating the dark universe with a very high density galaxy redshift
  survey over a wide area
The nature of dark energy remains a profound mystery 20 years after the
discovery of cosmic acceleration. A very high number density galaxy redshift
survey over a wide area (HD GRS Wide) spanning the redshift range of 0.5<z<4
using the same tracer, carried out using massively parallel wide field
multi-object slit spectroscopy from space, will provide definitive dark energy
measurements with minimal observational systematics by design. The HD GRS Wide
will illuminate the nature of dark energy, and lead to revolutionary advances
in particle physics and cosmology. It will also trace the cosmic web of dark
matter and provide key insight into large-scale structure in the Universe. The
required observational facility can be established as part of the probe
portfolio by NASA within the next decade.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04546v1
Planet formation: The case for large efforts on the computational side
Modern astronomy has finally been able to observe protoplanetary disks in
reasonable resolution and detail, unveiling the processes happening during
planet formation. These observed processes are understood under the framework
of disk-planet interaction, a process studied analytically and modeled
numerically for over 40 years. Long a theoreticians' game, the wealth of
observational data has been allowing for increasingly stringent tests of the
theoretical models. Modeling efforts are crucial to support the interpretation
of direct imaging analyses, not just for potential detections but also to put
meaningful upper limits on mass accretion rates and other physical quantities
in current and future large-scale surveys. This white paper addresses the
questions of what efforts on the computational side are required in the next
decade to advance our theoretical understanding, explain the observational
data, and guide new observations. We identified the nature of accretion, ab
initio planet formation, early evolution, and circumplanetary disks as major
fields of interest in computational planet formation. We recommend that
modelers relax the approximations of alpha-viscosity and isothermal equations
of state, on the grounds that these models use flawed assumptions, even if they
give good visual qualitative agreement with observations. We similarly
recommend that population synthesis move away from 1D hydrodynamics. The
computational resources to reach these goals should be developed during the
next decade, through improvements in algorithms and the hardware for hybrid
CPU/GPU clusters. Coupled with high angular resolution and great line
sensitivity in ground based interferometers, ELTs and JWST, these advances in
computational efforts should allow for large strides in the field in the next
decade.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.03629v1
Cosmic Dawn and Reionization: Astrophysics in the Final Frontier
The cosmic dawn and epoch of reionization mark the time period in the
universe when stars, galaxies, and blackhole seeds first formed and the
intergalactic medium changed from neutral to an ionized one. Despite
substantial progress with multi-wavelength observations, astrophysical process
during this time period remain some of the least understood with large
uncertainties on our existing models of galaxy, blackhole, and structure
formation. This white paper outlines the current state of knowledge and
anticipated scientific outcomes with ground and space-based astronomical
facilities in the 2020s. We then propose a number of scientific goals and
objectives for new facilities in late 2020s to mid 2030s that will lead to
definitive measurements of key astrophysical processes in the epoch of
reionization and cosmic dawn.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04944v1
"SZ spectroscopy" in the coming decade: Galaxy cluster cosmology and
  astrophysics in the submillimeter
Sunyaev-Zeldovich (SZ) effects were first proposed in the 1970s as tools to
identify the X-ray emitting hot gas inside massive clusters of galaxies and
obtain their velocities relative to the cosmic microwave background (CMB). Yet
it is only within the last decade that they have begun to significantly impact
astronomical research. Thanks to the rapid developments in CMB instrumentation,
measurement of the dominant thermal signature of the SZ effects has become a
routine tool to find and characterize large samples of galaxy clusters and to
seek deeper understanding of several important astrophysical processes via
high-resolution imaging studies of many targets. With the notable exception of
the Planck satellite and a few combinations of ground-based observatories, much
of this "SZ revolution" has happened in the photometric mode, where
observations are made at one or two frequencies in the millimeter regime to
maximize the cluster detection significance and minimize the foregrounds.
Still, there is much more to learn from detailed and systematic analyses of the
SZ spectra across multiple wavelengths, specifically in the submillimeter (>300
GHz) domain. The goal of this Science White Paper is to highlight this
particular aspect of SZ research, point out what new and potentially
groundbreaking insights can be obtained from these studies, and emphasize why
the coming decade can be a golden era for SZ spectral measurements.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05644v1
Understanding the circumgalactic medium is critical for understanding
  galaxy evolution
Galaxies evolve under the influence of gas flows between their interstellar
medium and their surrounding gaseous halos known as the circumgalactic medium
(CGM). The CGM is a major reservoir of galactic baryons and metals, and plays a
key role in the long cycles of accretion, feedback, and recycling of gas that
drive star formation. In order to fully understand the physical processes at
work within galaxies, it is therefore essential to have a firm understanding of
the composition, structure, kinematics, thermodynamics, and evolution of the
CGM. In this white paper we outline connections between the CGM and galactic
star formation histories, internal kinematics, chemical evolution, quenching,
satellite evolution, dark matter halo occupation, and the reionization of the
larger-scale intergalactic medium in light of the advances that will be made on
these topics in the 2020s. We argue that, in the next decade, fundamental
progress on all of these major issues depends critically on improved empirical
characterization and theoretical understanding of the CGM. In particular, we
discuss how future advances in spatially-resolved CGM observations at high
spectral resolution, broader characterization of the CGM across galaxy mass and
redshift, and expected breakthroughs in cosmological hydrodynamic simulations
will help resolve these major problems in galaxy evolution.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.03263v1
Science from an Ultra-Deep, High-Resolution Millimeter-Wave Survey
Opening up a new window of millimeter-wave observations that span frequency
bands in the range of 30 to 500 GHz, survey half the sky, and are both an order
of magnitude deeper (about 0.5 uK-arcmin) and of higher-resolution (about 10
arcseconds) than currently funded surveys would yield an enormous gain in
understanding of both fundamental physics and astrophysics. In particular, such
a survey would allow for major advances in measuring the distribution of dark
matter and gas on small-scales, and yield needed insight on 1.) dark matter
particle properties, 2.) the evolution of gas and galaxies, 3.) new light
particle species, 4.) the epoch of inflation, and 5.) the census of bodies
orbiting in the outer Solar System.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04078v1
The First Luminous Quasars and Their Host Galaxies
The discovery of luminous quasars at redshifts up to 7.5 demonstrates the
existence of several billion M_sun supermassive black holes (SMBHs) less than a
billion years after the Big Bang. They are accompanied by intense star
formation in their host galaxies, pinpointing sites of massive galaxy assembly
in the early universe, while their absorption spectra reveal an increasing
neutral intergalactic medium (IGM) at the epoch of reionization. Extrapolating
from the rapid evolution of the quasar density at z=5-7, we expect that there
is only one luminous quasar powered by a billion M_sun SMBH in the entire
observable universe at z~9. In the next decade, new wide-field, deep
near-infrared (NIR) sky surveys will push the redshift frontier to the first
luminous quasars at z~9-10; the combination with new deep X-ray surveys will
probe fainter quasar populations that trace earlier phases of SMBH growth. The
identification of these record-breaking quasars, and the measurements of their
BH masses and accretion properties require sensitive spectroscopic observations
with next generation of ground-based and space telescopes at NIR wavelengths.
High-resolution integral-field spectroscopy at NIR, and observations at
millimeter and radio wavelengths, will together provide a panchromatic view of
the quasar host galaxies and their galactic environment at cosmic dawn,
connecting SMBH growth with the rise of the earliest massive galaxies.
Systematic surveys and multiwavelength follow-up observations of the earliest
luminous quasars will strongly constrain the seeding and growth of the first
SMBHs in the universe, and provide the best lines of sight to study the history
of reionization.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04629v1
Multi-Messenger Astronomy with Extremely Large Telescopes
The field of time-domain astrophysics has entered the era of Multi-messenger
Astronomy (MMA). One key science goal for the next decade (and beyond) will be
to characterize gravitational wave (GW) and neutrino sources using the next
generation of Extremely Large Telescopes (ELTs). These studies will have a
broad impact across astrophysics, informing our knowledge of the production and
enrichment history of the heaviest chemical elements, constrain the dense
matter equation of state, provide independent constraints on cosmology,
increase our understanding of particle acceleration in shocks and jets, and
study the lives of black holes in the universe. Future GW detectors will
greatly improve their sensitivity during the coming decade, as will
near-infrared telescopes capable of independently finding kilonovae from
neutron star mergers. However, the electromagnetic counterparts to
high-frequency (LIGO/Virgo band) GW sources will be distant and faint and thus
demand ELT capabilities for characterization. ELTs will be important and
necessary contributors to an advanced and complete multi-messenger network.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04779v1
The case for a 'sub-millimeter SDSS': a 3D map of galaxy evolution to
  z~10
The Sloan Digital Sky Survey (SDSS) was revolutionary because of the
extraordinary breadth and ambition of its optical imaging and spectroscopy. We
argue that a 'sub-millimeter SDSS' - a sensitive large-area
imaging+spectroscopic survey in the sub-mm window - will revolutionize our
understanding of galaxy evolution in the early Universe. By detecting the
thermal dust continuum emission and atomic and molecular line emission of
galaxies out to z~10 it will be possible to measure the redshifts, star
formation rates, dust and gas content of hundreds of thousands of high-z
galaxies down to ~L*. Many of these galaxies will have counterparts visible in
the deep optical imaging of the Large Synoptic Survey Telescope. This 3D map of
galaxy evolution will span the peak epoch of galaxy formation all the way back
to cosmic dawn, measuring the co-evolution of the star formation rate density
and molecular gas content of galaxies, tracking the production of metals and
charting the growth of large-scale structure.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05110v1
Simultaneous Measurements of Star Formation and Supermassive Black Hole
  Growth in Galaxies
Galaxies grow their supermassive black holes in concert with their stars,
although the relationship between these major galactic components is poorly
understood. Observations of the cosmic growth of stars and black holes in
galaxies suffer from disjoint samples and the strong effects of dust
attenuation. The thermal infrared holds incredible potential for simultaneously
measuring both the star formation and black hole accretion rates in large
samples of galaxies covering a wide range of physical conditions. Spitzer
demonstrated this potential at low redshift, and by observing some of the most
luminous galaxies at z~2. JWST will apply these methods to normal galaxies at
these epochs, but will not be able to generate large spectroscopic samples or
access the thermal infrared at high-redshift. An order of magnitude gap in our
wavelength coverage will persist between JWST and ALMA. A large, cold infrared
telescope can fill this gap to determine when (in cosmic time), and where
(within the cosmic web), stars and black holes co-evolve, by measuring these
processes simultaneously in statistically complete and unbiased samples of
galaxies to z>8. A next-generation radio interferometer will have the
resolution and sensitivity to measure star-formation and nuclear accretion in
even the dustiest galaxies. Together, the thermal infrared and radio can
uniquely determine how stars and supermassive blackholes co-evolve in galaxies
over cosmic time.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1902.05569v1
The Wide Field Infrared Survey Telescope: 100 Hubbles for the 2020s
The Wide Field Infrared Survey Telescope (WFIRST) is a 2.4m space telescope
with a 0.281 deg^2 field of view for near-IR imaging and slitless spectroscopy
and a coronagraph designed for > 10^8 starlight suppresion. As background
information for Astro2020 white papers, this article summarizes the current
design and anticipated performance of WFIRST. While WFIRST does not have the UV
imaging/spectroscopic capabilities of the Hubble Space Telescope, for wide
field near-IR surveys WFIRST is hundreds of times more efficient. Some of the
most ambitious multi-cycle HST Treasury programs could be executed as routine
General Observer (GO) programs on WFIRST. The large area and time-domain
surveys planned for the cosmology and exoplanet microlensing programs will
produce extraordinarily rich data sets that enable an enormous range of
Archival Research (AR) investigations. Requirements for the coronagraph are
defined based on its status as a technology demonstration, but its expected
performance will enable unprecedented observations of nearby giant exoplanets
and circumstellar disks. WFIRST is currently in the Preliminary Design and
Technology Completion phase (Phase B), on schedule for launch in 2025, with
several of its critical components already in production.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04218v1
Spectral Distortions of the CMB as a Probe of Inflation, Recombination,
  Structure Formation and Particle Physics
Following the pioneering observations with COBE in the early 1990s, studies
of the cosmic microwave background (CMB) have focused on temperature and
polarization anisotropies. CMB spectral distortions - tiny departures of the
CMB energy spectrum from that of a perfect blackbody - provide a second,
independent probe of fundamental physics, with a reach deep into the primordial
Universe. The theoretical foundation of spectral distortions has seen major
advances in recent years, which highlight the immense potential of this
emerging field. Spectral distortions probe a fundamental property of the
Universe - its thermal history - thereby providing additional insight into
processes within the cosmological standard model (CSM) as well as new physics
beyond. Spectral distortions are an important tool for understanding inflation
and the nature of dark matter. They shed new light on the physics of
recombination and reionization, both prominent stages in the evolution of our
Universe, and furnish critical information on baryonic feedback processes, in
addition to probing primordial correlation functions at scales inaccessible to
other tracers. In principle the range of signals is vast: many orders of
magnitude of discovery space could be explored by detailed observations of the
CMB energy spectrum. Several CSM signals are predicted and provide clear
experimental targets, some of which are already observable with present-day
technology. Confirmation of these signals would extend the reach of the CSM by
orders of magnitude in physical scale as the Universe evolves from the initial
stages to its present form. The absence of these signals would pose a huge
theoretical challenge, immediately pointing to new physics.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04409v2
Primordial Non-Gaussianity
Our current understanding of the Universe is established through the pristine
measurements of structure in the cosmic microwave background (CMB) and the
distribution and shapes of galaxies tracing the large scale structure (LSS) of
the Universe. One key ingredient that underlies cosmological observables is
that the field that sources the observed structure is assumed to be initially
Gaussian with high precision. Nevertheless, a minimal deviation from
Gaussianityis perhaps the most robust theoretical prediction of models that
explain the observed Universe; itis necessarily present even in the simplest
scenarios. In addition, most inflationary models produce far higher levels of
non-Gaussianity. Since non-Gaussianity directly probes the dynamics in the
early Universe, a detection would present a monumental discovery in cosmology,
providing clues about physics at energy scales as high as the GUT scale.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04763v1
Messengers from the Early Universe: Cosmic Neutrinos and Other Light
  Relics
The hot dense environment of the early universe is known to have produced
large numbers of baryons, photons, and neutrinos. These extreme conditions may
have also produced other long-lived species, including new light particles
(such as axions or sterile neutrinos) or gravitational waves. The gravitational
effects of any such light relics can be observed through their unique imprint
in the cosmic microwave background (CMB), the large-scale structure, and the
primordial light element abundances, and are important in determining the
initial conditions of the universe. We argue that future cosmological
observations, in particular improved maps of the CMB on small angular scales,
can be orders of magnitude more sensitive for probing the thermal history of
the early universe than current experiments. These observations offer a unique
and broad discovery space for new physics in the dark sector and beyond, even
when its effects would not be visible in terrestrial experiments or in
astrophysical environments. A detection of an excess light relic abundance
would be a clear indication of new physics and would provide the first direct
information about the universe between the times of reheating and neutrino
decoupling one second later.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05293v1
Envisioning the next decade of Galactic Center science: a laboratory for
  the study of the physics and astrophysics of supermassive black holes
As the closest example of a galactic nucleus, the Galactic center (GC)
presents an exquisite laboratory for learning about supermassive black holes
(SMBH) and their environment. We describe several exciting new research
directions that, over the next 10 years, hold the potential to answer some of
the biggest scientific questions raised in recent decades: Is General
Relativity (GR) the correct description for supermassive black holes? What is
the nature of star formation in extreme environments? How do stars and compact
objects dynamically interact with the supermassive black hole? What physical
processes drive gas accretion in low-luminosity black holes? We describe how
the high sensitivity, angular resolution, and astrometric precision offered by
the next generation of large ground-based telescopes with adaptive optics will
help us answer these questions. First, it will be possible to obtain precision
measurements of stellar orbits in the Galaxy's central potential, providing
both tests of GR in the unexplored regime near a SMBH and measurements of the
extended dark matter distribution that is predicted to exist at the GC. Second,
we will probe stellar populations at the GC to significantly lower masses than
are possible today, down to brown dwarfs. Their structure and dynamics will
provide an unprecedented view of the stellar cusp around the SMBH and will
distinguish between models of star formation in this extreme environment. This
increase in depth will also allow us to measure the currently unknown
population of compact remnants at the GC by observing their effects on luminous
sources. Third, uncertainties on the mass of and distance to the SMBH can be
improved by a factor of $\sim$10. Finally, we can also study the near-infrared
accretion onto the black hole at unprecedented sensitivity and time resolution,
which can reveal the underlying physics of black hole accretion.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05242v1
Variability in the Assembly of Protostellar Systems
Understanding the collapse of clouds and the formation of protoplanetary
disks is essential to understanding the formation of stars and planets. Infall
and accretion, the mass-aggregation processes that occur at envelope and disk
scales, drive the dynamical evolution of protostars. While the observations of
protostars at different stages constrain their evolutionary tracks, the impact
of variability due to accretion bursts on dynamical and chemical evolution of
the source is largely unknown. The lasting effects on protostellar envelopes
and disks are tracked through multi-wavelength and time domain observational
campaigns, requiring deep X-ray, infrared, and radio imaging and spectroscopy,
at a sufficient level of spatial detail to distinguish contributions from the
various substructures (i.e., envelope from disk from star from outflow).
Protostellar models derived from these campaigns will illuminate the initial
chemical state of protoplanetary disks during the epoch of giant planet
formation. Insight from individual star formation in the Milky Way is also
necessary to understand star formation rates in extragalactic sources. This
cannot be achieved with ground-based observatories and is not covered by
currently approved instrumentation. Requirements: High (v < 10 km/s for survey;
v < 1 km/s for followup) spectral resolution capabilities with relatively rapid
response times in the IR (3-500 um), X-ray (0.1-10 keV), and radio (cm) are
critical to follow the course of accretion and outflow during an outburst.
Complementary, AU-scale radio observations are needed to probe the disk
accretion zone, and 10 AU-scale to probe chemical and kinematic structures of
the disk-forming regions, and track changes in the dust, ice, and gas within
protostellar envelopes.

