http://arxiv.org/abs/1904.05857v1
Astro2020 Science White Paper: Future X-ray Studies of Supernova
  Remnants
This is a white paper submitted in response to the call from the Astro2020
Decadal Survey Committee. We outline the scientific progress that will be made
in the next few decades in the study of supernova remnants in the X-ray band,
using observatories like Athena, Lynx, and AXIS.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1905.04096v1
Astro2020 Science White Paper: Radial Metallicity Gradients in
  Star-Forming Galaxies
Spiral star-forming galaxies are complex astrophysical objects whose baryonic
component is dominated by the disk, where most of the star formation resides.
The metallicity in the disk is not uniform, and it usually decreases with the
distance to the galaxy center, in the so-called radial metallicity gradient.
Radial metallicity gradients have been successfully used to set important
constraints on galaxy formation and their chemical evolution. This paper
focuses on the implications of radial metallicity gradients measured with
different probes for a variety of galaxies, and on the foreseen advances in
this field in the astronomical landscape of the 2020s.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.06136v1
Astro2020 Science White Paper: Dynamical Processes in the Planet-Forming
  Environment
The transfer of circumstellar disk mass and momentum onto the protostar and
out into the environment occurs via a variety of mechanisms including
magnetospheric accretion, jets, outflows, and disk winds. The interplay of
these processes determine both the conditions under which planet formation
occurs and the lifetime of the disk. Metallic emission lines, along with the
Balmer series of hydrogen, probe the kinematics of gas within the
planet-forming and central regions of circumstellar disks. High-spectral
resolution study of these emission lines provides critical information on mass
and momentum loss, turbulence, and disk wind origins.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.06810v1
Astro2020: Unleashing the Potential of Dust Emission as a Window onto
  Galaxy Evolution
We present the severe, systematic uncertainties currently facing our
understanding of dust emission, which stymie our ability to truly exploit dust
as a tool for studying galaxy evolution. We propose a program of study to
tackle these uncertainties, describe the necessary facilities, and discuss the
potential science gains that will result. This white paper was submitted to the
US National Academies' Astro2020 Decadal Survey on Astronomy and Astrophysics.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04447v1
A Unique Messenger to Probe Active Galactic Nuclei: High-Energy
  Neutrinos
This Astro2020 white paper advocates for a multi-messenger approach that
combines high-energy neutrino and broad multi-wavelength electromagnetic
observations to study AGN during the coming decade. The unique capabilities of
these joint observations promise to solve several long-standing issues in our
understanding of AGN as powerful cosmic accelerators.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05475v1
The role of Active Galactic Nuclei in galaxy evolution: insights from
  space ultraviolet spectropolarimetry
This Astro2020 white paper summarizes the unknowns of active galactic nuclei
(AGN) physics that could be unveiled thanks to a new, space-born, ultraviolet
spectropolarimeter. The unique capabilities of high energy polarimetry would
help us to understand the precise mechanisms of matter and energy transfer and
supermassive black holes growth, together with the impact of AGN feedback on
galaxy evolution.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04667v1
Astro2020 Science White Paper: Fundamental Physics with Brown Dwarfs:
  The Mass-Radius Relation
The lowest-mass stars, brown dwarfs and giant exoplanets span a minimum in
the mass-radius relationship that probes the fundamental physics of extreme
states of matter, magnetism, and fusion. This White Paper outlines scientific
opportunities and the necessary resources for modeling and measuring the
mass-radius relationship in this regime.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1904.01601v1
Astro2020 Science White Paper: A Summary of Multimessenger Science with
  Galactic Binaries
Galactic binaries with orbital periods less than $\approx$1 hr are strong
gravitational wave sources in the mHz regime, ideal for the Laser
Interferometer Space Antenna (LISA). In fact, theory predicts that \emph{LISA}
will resolve tens of thousands of Galactic binaries individually with a large
fraction being bright enough for electromagnetic observations. This opens up a
new window where we can study a statistical sample of compact Galactic binaries
in both, the electromagnetic as well the gravitational wavebands. Using
multi-messenger observations we can measure tidal effects in detached double WD
systems, which strongly impact the outcome of WD mergers. For accreting WDs as
well as NS binaries, multi-messenger observations give us the possibility to
study the angular momentum transport due to mass transfer. In this white paper
we present an overview of the opportunities for research on Galactic binaries
using multi-messenger observations and summarize some recommendations for the
2020 time-frame.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1904.02018v1
Astro2020 Science White Paper: A New Era for X-ray Lensing Studies of
  Quasars and Galaxies
Current X-ray observations and simulations show that gravitational lensing
can be used to infer the structure near the event horizons of black holes,
constrain the dynamics and evolution of black-hole accretion and outflows, test
general relativity in the strong-gravity regime and place constraints on the
evolution of dark matter in the lensing galaxies. These science goals currently
cannot be achieved in a statistically large sample of z = 0.5 - 5 lensed
quasars due to the limited capabilities of current X-ray telescopes and the
relatively low number (~200) of known lensed quasars. The latter limitation
will be resolved with the multi-band and wide-field photometric optical survey
of LSST that is expected to lead to the discovery of > 4,000 additional
gravitationally lensed systems. As we show in this white paper, these science
goals can be reached with an X-ray telescope having a spatial resolution of
<0.5arcsec to resolve the lensed images and a collecting area of >0.5 m^2 at 1
keV.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05469v1
Supermassive Black Hole Spin and Reverberation
X-ray reverberation mapping has emerged as a powerful probe of microparsec
scales around AGN, and with high sensitivity detectors, its full potential in
echo-mapping the otherwise inaccessible disk-corona at the black hole horizon
scale will be revealed.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05583v1
Astro2020 Decadal Science White Paper: Gravitational Wave Survey of
  Galactic Ultra Compact Binaries
Ultra-compact binaries (UCBs) are systems containing compact or degenerate
stars with orbital periods less than one hour. Tens of millions of UCBs are
predicted to exist within theGalaxy emitting gravitational waves (GWs) at mHz
frequencies. Combining GW searches with electromagnetic (EM) surveys like Gaia
and LSST will yield a comprehensive, multimessenger catalog of UCBs in the
galaxy. Joint EM and GW observations enable measurements of masses, radii, and
orbital dynamics far beyond what can be achieved by independent EM or GW
studies. GW+EM surveys of UCBs in the galaxy will yield a trove of unique
insights into the nature of white dwarfs, the formation of compact objects,
dynamical interactions in binaries, and energetic, accretion-driven phenomena
like Type Ia superonovae.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.06750v1
Astro2020 Science White Paper: High Angular Resolution Astrophysics -
  Fundamental Stellar Parameters
Direct determination of fundamental stellar parameters has many profound and
wide-ranging impacts throughout astrophysics. These determinations are rooted
in high angular resolution observations. In particular, as long-baseline
optical interferometry has matured over the past decade, increasingly large
survey samples are serving to empirically ground the basic parameters of these
building blocks of the universe. True imaging and improved parametric fitting
are becoming routinely available, an essential component of fully
characterizing stars, stellar environments, and planets these stars may host.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1904.11845v1
Astro2020 Science White Paper: Compact Stellar Jets
This paper outlines the importance of understanding jets from compact
binaries for the problem of understanding the broader phenomenology of jet
production. Because X-ray binaries are nearby and bright, have well-measured
system parameters, and vary by factors of $\sim 10^6$ on $\sim$ year
timescales, they provide a unique opportunity to understand how various aspects
of the jet physics change in response to changes in the accretion flow, giving
the possibility of looking for trends within individual systems and testing
their universality with other systems, rather than trying to interpret large
samples of objects on a statistical basis.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04657v1
Astro2020 Science White Paper: Cosmology with a Space-Based
  Gravitational Wave Observatory
There are two big questions cosmologists would like to answer -- How does the
Universe work, and what are its origin and destiny? A long wavelength
gravitational wave detector -- with million km interferometer arms, achievable
only from space -- gives a unique opportunity to address both of these
questions. A sensitive, mHz frequency observatory could use the inspiral and
merger of massive black hole binaries as standard sirens, extending our ability
to characterize the expansion history of the Universe from the onset of dark
energy-domination out to a redshift z ~ 10. A low-frequency detector,
furthermore, offers the best chance for discovery of exotic gravitational wave
sources, including a primordial stochastic background, that could reveal clues
to the origin of our Universe.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04664v1
Astro2020 Science White Paper: High-Resolution Spectroscopic Surveys of
  Ultracool Dwarf Stars & Brown Dwarfs
High resolution spectroscopy of the lowest-mass stars and brown dwarfs
reveals their origins, multiplicity, compositions and physical properties, with
implications for the star formation and chemical evolution history of the Milky
Way. We motivate the need for high-resolution, infrared spectroscopic surveys
to reach these faint sources.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.06720v1
Astro2020 Science White Paper: Black Hole Growth in Mergers and Dual AGN
Hierarchical models of galaxy formation predict that galaxy mergers represent
a significant transitional stage of rapid supermassive black hole (SMBH)
growth. Yet, the connection between the merging process and enhanced active
galactic nuclei (AGN) activity as well as the timescale of SMBH mergers remains
highly uncertain. The breakthrough in reconciling the importance of galaxy
mergers with black hole growth lies in a thoroughly-studied census of dual AGN
across cosmic history, which will be enabled by next-generation observational
capabilities, theoretical advances, and simulations. This white paper outlines
the key questions in galaxy mergers, dual and offset AGN, and proposes
multiwavelength solutions using future high-resolution observatories in the
X-rays (AXIS, Lynx), near and mid-infrared (30 meter class telescopes, JWST),
and submillimeter (ALMA).

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.07664v1
Astro2020 Science White Paper: Do Supermassive Black Hole Winds Impact
  Galaxy Evolution?
Powerful winds driven by supermassive black holes (SMBHs) are likely the main
mechanism through which SMBHs regulate their own growth and influence the host
galaxy evolution. However, their origin and their capability to impact the
large-scale environment are still highly debated. Fundamental results will come
from high-energy and spatial resolution X-ray observatories.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.07671v1
Astro2020 Science White Paper: Magnetic Fields and Polarization in the
  Diffuse Interstellar Medium
Magnetism is one of the most important forces on the interstellar medium
(ISM), anisotropically regulating the structure and star formation that drive
galactic evolution. Recent high dynamic range observations of diffuse gas and
molecular clouds have revealed new links between interstellar structures and
the ambient magnetic field. ISM morphology encodes rich physical information,
but deciphering it requires high-resolution measurements of the magnetic field:
linear polarization of starlight and dust emission, and Zeeman splitting. These
measure different components of the magnetic field, and crucially, Zeeman
splitting is the only way to directly measure the field strength in the ISM. We
advocate a statistically meaningful survey of magnetic field strengths using
the 21-cm line in absorption, as well as an observational test of the link
between structure formation and field strength using the 21-cm line in
emission. Finally, we report on the serendipitous discovery of linear
polarization of the 21-cm line, which demands both theoretical and
observational follow-up.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.07713v1
High-Energy Galactic Cosmic Rays (Astro2020 Science White Paper)
The origin of the highest energy Galactic cosmic rays is still not
understood, nor is the transition to EeV extragalactic particles. Scientific
progress requires enhancements of existing air-shower arrays, such as: IceCube
with its surface detector IceTop, and the low-energy extensions of both the
Telescope Array and the Pierre Auger Observatory.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.08134v1
Astro2020 Science White Paper: A Shocking Shift in Paradigm for
  Classical Novae
The discovery of GeV gamma-rays from classical novae has led to a
reassessment of these garden-variety explosions, and highlighted their
importance for understanding radiative shocks, particle acceleration, and dust
formation in more exotic, distant transients. Recent collaboration between
observers and theorists has revealed that shocks in novae are energetically
important, and can even dominate their bolometric luminosity. Shocks may also
explain long-standing mysteries in novae such as dust production,
super-Eddington luminosities, and `flares' in optical light curves. Here, we
highlight the multi-wavelength facilities of the next decade that will further
test our nova shock model and fulfill the promise of novae as powerful
astrophysical laboratories.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.09275v1
Astro2020 Science White Paper: Local Dwarf Galaxy Archaeology
Nearby dwarf galaxies are local analogues of high-redshift and metal-poor
stellar populations. Most of these systems ceased star formation long ago, but
they retain signatures of their past that can be unraveled by detailed study of
their resolved stars. Archaeological examination of dwarf galaxies with
resolved stellar spectroscopy provides key insights into the first stars and
galaxies, galaxy formation in the smallest dark matter halos, stellar
populations in the metal-free and metal-poor universe, the nature of the first
stellar explosions, and the origin of the elements. Extremely large telescopes
with multi-object R=5,000-30,000 spectroscopy are needed to enable such studies
for galaxies of different luminosities throughout the Local Group.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1904.01447v1
Astro2020 Science White Paper: Black Holes Across Cosmic Time
Supermassive black holes are located at the center of most, if not all,
massive galaxies. They follow close correlations with global properties of
their host galaxies (scaling relations), and are thought to play a crucial role
in galaxy evolution. Yet, we lack a complete understanding of fundamental
aspects of their growth across cosmic time. In particular, we still do not
understand: (1) whether black holes or their host galaxies grow faster and (2)
what is the maximum mass that black holes can reach. The high angular
resolution capability and sensitivity of 30-m class telescopes will
revolutionize our understanding of the extreme end of the black hole and galaxy
mass scale. With such facilities, we will be able to dynamically measure masses
of the largest black holes and characterize galaxy properties out to redshift
$z \sim 1.5$. Together with the evolution of black hole-galaxy scaling
relations since $z \sim 1.5$, the maximum mass black hole will shed light on
the main channels of black hole growth.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1904.02120v1
Astro2020 Science White Paper: Cold Gas Outflows, Feedback, and the
  Shaping of Galaxies
There is wide consensus that galaxy outflows are one of the most important
processes determining the evolution of galaxies through cosmic time, for
example playing a key role in shaping the galaxy mass function. Our
understanding of outflows and their drivers, however, is in its infancy ---
this is particularly true for the cold (neutral atomic and molecular) phases of
outflows, which present observational and modeling challenges. Here we outline
several key open questions, briefly discussing the requirements of the
observations necessary to make progress, and the relevance of several existing
and planned facilities. It is clear that galaxy outflows, and particularly cold
outflows, will remain a topic of active research for the next decade and
beyond.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1904.06739v1
Astro2020 Science White Paper: A Unification of the Micro and Macro
  Physics in the Intracluster Medium of Nearby Clusters
Clusters of galaxies are the most massive virialized structures in the
Universe. The microphysical properties of the intracluster plasma can affect
dynamical processes over an enormous range: from the feedback of active
galactic nuclei to shock acceleration in merging clusters. All the major
cosmological simulations assume the astrophysical plasma to be inviscid. It is
critical to measure microphysical properties of the intracluster plasma to
truly understand the physical processes that drive the cosmic evolution.
Tremendous progress has been made by comparing high spatial resolution X-ray
images to (magneto-)hydrodynamic simulations. Future X-ray missions with
calorimeters promise a direct measurement of transport coefficients and gas
motions, providing a more realistic benchmark for cosmological simulations.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1904.11842v1
Astro2020 Science White Paper: Populations of Black Holes in Binaries
Black holes in binary star systems are vital for understanding the process of
pr oducing gravitational wave sources, understanding how supernovae work, and
for p roviding fossil evidence for the high mass stars from earlier in the
Universe. At the present time, sample sizes of these objects, and especially of
black hole s in binaries, are quite limited. Furthermore, more precise
measurements of the binary parameters are needed, as well. With improvements
primarily in X-ray an d radio astronomy capabilities, it should be possible to
build much larger sampl es of much better measured black hole binaries.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1905.00376v1
Astro2020 Science White Paper: Probing the Structure of Interstellar
  Dust from Micron to Kpc Scales with X-ray Imaging
The X-ray regime is a largely underused resource for constraining
interstellar dust grain models and improving our understanding of the physical
processes that dictate how grains evolve over their lifetimes. This is mostly
due to current detectors' relatively low sensitivity and high background,
limiting the targets to the brightest sources. The improved sensitivity of the
next generation of X-ray detectors will allow studies of much fainter sources,
at much higher angular resolution, expanding our sampled sightlines in both
quality and quantity.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1905.05566v1
The production and escape of ionizing photons from galaxies over cosmic
  time (Astro2020 Science White Paper)
The ionizing photons produced by massive stars are key actors in galaxy
evolution. Ionizing photon production and escape is poorly understood. Improved
space-based, spatially-resolved, multiplexed spectroscopic capabilities
covering observed wavelengths of 1000 to 3000 Angstrom, in concert with
spectroscopy from the ELTs and JWST, would lead to definitive answers as to how
ionizing photons are produced and leaked, what populations of galaxies are
responsible for ionizing photon leakage, what determines whether escape is
possible, and how ionizing galaxy populations evolve over cosmic time.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04686v1
Discovery of Cold Brown Dwarfs or Free-Floating Giant Planets Close to
  the Sun
This White Paper describes the opportunities for discovery of Jupiter-mass
objects with 300K atmospheres. The discovery and characterization of such cold
objects is vital for understanding the low-mass terminus of the initial mass
function and for optimizing the study of exoplanets by the next generation of
large telescopes, space probes and space missions.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1904.01089v1
Stellar Characterization Necessary to Define Holistic Planetary
  Habitability
It is a truism within the exoplanet field that "to know the planet, you must
know the star." This pertains to the physical properties of the star (i.e.
mass, radius, luminosity, age, multiplicity), the activity and magnetic fields,
as well as the stellar elemental abundances which can be used as a proxy for
planetary composition. In this white paper, we discuss important stellar
characteristics that require attention in upcoming ground- and space-based
missions, such that their processes can be understood and either detangled from
that of the planet, correlated with the presence of a planet, or utilized in
lieu of direct planetary observations.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1904.04311v1
Astro2020 APT White Paper: "Mind the gap": a call to redesign astronomy
  graduate education
About one fifth of Ph.D's across all STEM disciplines secure a tenure track
position in academia. It is also the case that science and engineering have
evolved significantly and so has the nature of the labor market and the
increasingly multidisciplinary nature of the greatest scientific challenges.
These realities, however, have not altered the main objective of graduate STEM
education: the training of unidisciplinary academic researchers. There is
therefore a gap between what the students and society need and what graduate
STEM education offers. At root of the problem is not only the lack of
information regarding actual career opportunities but the lack of formation
because, as the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering and Medicine
recognized in its recent report entitled "Graduate STEM Education for the 21st
Century", "many graduate programs do not adequately prepare students to
translate their knowledge into impact in multiple careers". In that report, the
National Academies of Sciences sets new standards for graduate STEM education,
describes the actions required by each stakeholder, and urges all to strongly
commit to this paradigm change. Astro2020 represents an opportunity for the
astronomy and astrophysics community to show this commitment by issuing
recommendations on the redesign of astronomy graduate education following the
new guidelines set by the National Academies of Sciences. By "minding the gap"
between expectations and opportunities, keeping in mind the evolving needs of
the STEM workforce, we can better justify the use of tax-payers money with an
investment that allows to do transformative science while conscientiously
training highly qualified STEM professionals able to apply the power of science
to problems and opportunities of generations to come, as envisioned by Vannevar
Bush's science as the endless frontier.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.06242v1
The Early Evolution of Stars and Exoplanet Systems: Exploring and
  Exploiting Nearby, Young Stars (an Astro2020 Science White Paper)
Our knowledge of the population of young (age <=750 Myr) stars that lie
within ~120 pc of the Sun is rapidly accelerating. The vast majority of these
nearby, young stars can be placed in kinematically coherent groups (nearby,
young moving groups; NYMGs). NYMGs and their member stars afford unmatched
opportunities to explore a wide variety of aspects of the early evolution of
stars and exoplanet systems, including stellar initial mass functions and age
determination methods; the magnetic activities and high-energy radiation
environments of young, late-type stars; the dynamics of young binary and
hierarchical multiple systems; the late evolutionary stages of circumstellar
disks; and, especially, direct-imaging discovery and characterization of
massive young exoplanets. In this Astro2020 Science White Paper, we describe
how our understanding of these and many other aspects of the early lives of
stars and planetary systems is ripe for progress over the next decade via the
identification and study of NYMG members with present and next-generation
facilities and instruments.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.08188v1
Astro2020 Science White Paper: Stellar Physics and Galactic Archeology
  using Asteroseismology in the 2020's
Asteroseismology is the only observational tool in astronomy that can probe
the interiors of stars, and is a benchmark method for deriving fundamental
properties of stars and exoplanets. Over the coming decade, space-based and
ground-based observations will provide a several order of magnitude increase of
solar-like oscillators, as well as a dramatic increase in the number and
quality of classical pulsator observations, providing unprecedented
possibilities to study stellar physics and galactic stellar populations. In
this white paper, we describe key science questions and necessary facilities to
continue the asteroseismology revolution into the 2020's.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.08670v1
Astro2020 Science White Paper: The Local Relics of of Supermassive Black
  Hole Seeds
We have compelling evidence for stellar-mass black holes (BHs) of ~5-80 M_sun
that form through the death of massive stars. We also have compelling evidence
for so-called supermassive BHs (10^5-10^10 M_sun) that are predominantly found
in the centers of galaxies. We have very good reason to believe there must be
BHs with masses in the gap between these ranges: the first ~10^9 M_sun BHs are
observed only hundreds of millions of years after the Big Bang, and all
theoretically viable paths to making supermassive BHs require a stage of
"intermediate" mass. However, no BHs have yet been reliably detected in the
100-10}^5 M_sun mass range. Uncovering these intermediate-mass BHs of 10^3-10^5
M_sun is within reach in the coming decade. In this white paper we highlight
the crucial role that 30-m class telescopes will play in dynamically detecting
intermediate-mass black holes, should they exist.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.09205v1
Astro2020 Science White Paper: gravity-wave asteroseismology of
  intermediate- and high-mass stars
The evolution of a star is driven by the physical processes in its interior
making the theory of stellar structure and evolution the most crucial
ingredient for not only stellar evolution studies, but any field of astronomy
which relies on the yields along stellar evolution. High-precision time-series
photometric data assembled by recent space missions revealed that current
models of stellar structure and evolution show major shortcomings already in
the two earliest nuclear burning phases, impacting all subsequent phases prior
to the formation of the end-of-life remnant. This white paper focuses
specifically on the transport of chemical elements and of angular momentum in
the stellar structure and evolution models of stars born with convective core,
as revealed by their gravity-mode oscillations.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1904.08485v1
Astro2020 Science White Paper: Are Supernovae the Dust Producer in the
  Early Universe?
Whether supernovae are a significant source of dust has been a long-standing
debate. The large quantities of dust observed in high-redshift galaxies raise a
fundamental question as to the origin of dust in the Universe since stars
cannot have evolved to the AGB dust-producing phase in high-redshift galaxies.
In contrast, supernovae occur within several millions of years after the onset
of star formation. This white paper focuses on dust formation in supernova
ejecta with US-Extremely Large Telescope (ELT) perspective during the era of
JWST and LSST.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.11192v1
Astro2020 Science White Paper: Probing Magnetic Reconnection in Solar
  Flares - New Perspectives from Radio Dynamic Imaging Spectroscopy
Magnetic reconnection is a fundamental physical process in many laboratory,
space, and astrophysical plasma contexts. Solar flares serve as an outstanding
laboratory to study the magnetic reconnection and the associated energy release
and conversion processes under plasma conditions difficult to reproduce in the
laboratory, and with considerable spatiotemporal details not possible elsewhere
in astrophysics. Here we emphasize the unique power of remote-sensing
observations of solar flares at radio wavelengths. In particular, we discuss
the transformative technique of broadband radio dynamic imaging spectroscopy in
making significant contributions to addressing several outstanding challenges
in magnetic reconnection, including the capability of pinpointing magnetic
reconnection sites, measuring the time-evolving reconnecting magnetic fields,
and deriving the spatially and temporally resolved distribution function of
flare-accelerated electrons.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04592v1
Astro2020 Decadal Science White Paper: The state of gravitational-wave
  astrophysics in 2020
While still in its infancy, the budding field of gravitational-wave astronomy
has so far exceeded most expectations, and the achievements that have already
been made bode well for the decade to come. While the discoveries made possible
by LIGO have captured the imagination of experts and nonexperts alike, it is
important when looking ahead to consider those discoveries in the context of
the field as a whole. Just as radio, optical, and x-ray radiation probe
different physical phenomena occurring on a range of length and energy scales,
the future of gravitational-wave astrophysics depends on our ability to open up
the entire spectrum. We will describe the scientific prospects for the field of
gravitational-wave astronomy as a whole as we enter the coming decade, and we
will place the specific contributions from a future space-based
gravitational-wave observatory within this context.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05592v1
Astro2020: Unlocking the Secrets of Late-Stage Stellar Evolution and
  Mass Loss through Radio Wavelength Imaging
During the late phases of evolution, low-to-intermediate mass stars like our
Sun undergo periods of extensive mass loss, returning up to 80% of their
initial mass to the interstellar medium. This mass loss profoundly affects the
stellar evolutionary history, and the resulting circumstellar ejecta are a
primary source of dust and heavy element enrichment in the Galaxy. However,
many details concerning the physics of late-stage stellar mass loss remain
poorly understood, including the wind launching mechanism(s), the mass loss
geometry and timescales, and the mass loss histories of stars of various
initial masses. These uncertainties have implications not only for stellar
astrophysics, but for fields ranging from star formation to extragalactic
astronomy and cosmology. Observations at centimeter, millimeter, and
submillimeter wavelengths that resolve the radio surfaces and extended
atmospheres of evolved stars in space, time, and frequency are poised to
provide groundbreaking new insights into these questions in the coming decade.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.09692v1
Astro2020: Hot Drivers of Stellar Feedback from 10 to 10,000 pc
Stellar feedback -- stars regulating further star formation through the
injection of energy and momentum into the interstellar medium -- operates
through a complex set of processes that originate in star clusters but shape
entire galaxies. A mature theory of stellar feedback is essential to a complete
theory of star and galaxy formation, but the energy and momentum injected by
hot gas into its surroundings remains unclear. With a next-generation X-ray
observatory, breakthrough progress can be made through precision measurements
of the temperature, density, velocity, and abundances of hot gas on scales of
star clusters to galactic superwinds.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.09693v1
Astro2020: How does dust escape from galaxies?
Whenever gas is blown out of a galaxy, chances are that it contains some
cosmic dust. This dust is an important part of the metals budget for the
circumgalactic and intergalactic media, and traces the outflow and stripping
history of the galaxy. The dust is also interesting in its own right, as dust
plays an essential role in many astrophysical processes. We have only begun to
learn about circumgalactic dust, and in particular we do not know how (and
when) it escapes its host galaxy. Here we describe the prospects for measuring
the dust mass and properties around many individual galaxies, which will form
the basis for understanding how the dust got there.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.11345v1
Astro2020 Science White Paper: The Extended Cool Gas Reservoirs Within z
  > 1 (Proto-)Cluster Environments
High-redshift ($z$) proto-clusters will serve as testing grounds to probe the
gas supply furnishing the emerging metals, stars, and large-scale structures we
see at the current epoch. This work focuses on the major role large
radio/millimeter (mm) single dish facilities will have in constraining the
bulk, cold (T $= 10^{1-4}$K) molecular and atomic gas content. To highlight the
need for large radio/mm single dishes, we calculate how the high-sensitivity of
the Green Bank Telescope's (GBT) unblocked 100m aperture provides vital
interferometric short-spacing coverage to support higher-resolution ngVLA
observations of the cold neutral gas at the largest scales. These combined
observations are optimal for revealing low-surface brightness emission, and
thus aid in the total baryonic mass estimates across cosmic time.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04612v3
Astro2020 Science White Paper: Understanding the evolution of close
  white dwarf binaries
Interacting binaries containing white dwarfs can lead to a variety of
outcomes that range from powerful thermonuclear explosions, which are important
in the chemical evolution of galaxies and as cosmological distance estimators,
to strong sources of low frequency gravitational wave radiation, which makes
them ideal calibrators for the gravitational low-frequency wave detector LISA
mission. However, current theoretical evolution models still fail to explain
the observed properties of the known populations of white dwarfs in both
interacting and detached binaries. Major limitations are that the existing
population models have generally been developed to explain the properties of
sub-samples of these systems, occupying small volumes of the vast parameter
space, and that the observed samples are severely biased. The overarching goal
for the next decade is to assemble a large and homogeneous sample of white
dwarf binaries that spans the entire range of evolutionary states, to obtain
precise measurements of their physical properties, and to further develop the
theory to satisfactorily reproduce the properties of the entire population.
While ongoing and future all-sky high- and low-resolution optical spectroscopic
surveys allow us to enlarge the sample of these systems, high-resolution
ultraviolet spectroscopy is absolutely essential for the characterization of
the white dwarfs in these binaries. The Hubble Space Telescope is currently the
only facility that provides ultraviolet spectroscopy, and with its foreseeable
demise, planning the next ultraviolet mission is of utmost urgency.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04063v2
What is the nature and origin of the highest-energy particles in the
  universe?
This white paper was submitted to the US Astronomy and Astrophysics Decadal
Survey (Astro2020) and defines the science questions to be answered in the next
decade in the field of Ultra-High Energy Cosmic-Rays. Following a review of the
recent experimental and theoretical advances in the field, the paper outlines
strategies and requirements desirable for the design of future experiments.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05544v1
The radio search for technosignatures in the decade 2020-2030
Advancing the scientific frontier in the search for life in the universe
requires support of searches for both biosignatures and technosignatures. A
modest budgetary increment can expand the search for life in the universe from
primitive to complex life and from the solar neighborhood to the entire Galaxy.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.08183v1
Supermassive Black-hole Demographics & Environments With Pulsar Timing
  Arrays
Precision timing of large arrays (>50) of millisecond pulsars will detect the
nanohertz gravitational-wave emission from supermassive binary black holes
within the next ~3-7 years. We review the scientific opportunities of these
detections, the requirements for success, and the synergies with
electromagnetic instruments operating in the 2020s.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.08194v1
Fundamental Physics with Radio Millisecond Pulsars
We summarize the state of the art and future directions in using millisecond
radio pulsars to test gravitation and measure intrinsic, fundamental parameters
of the pulsar systems. As discussed below, such measurements continue to yield
high-impact constraints on viable nuclear processes that govern the
theoretically-elusive interior of neutron stars, and place the most stringent
limits on the validity of general relativity in extreme environments. Ongoing
and planned pulsar-timing measurements provide the greatest opportunities for
measurements of compact-object masses and new general-relativistic variations
in orbits.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1904.01092v1
An Interdisciplinary Perspective on Elements in Astrobiology: From Stars
  to Planets to Life
Stellar elemental abundances direct impact planetary interior structure and
mineralogy, surface composition, and life. However, the different communities
that are necessary for planetary habitability exploration (astrophysics,
planetary science, geology, and biology) emphasize different elements. If we
are to make progress, especially in view of upcoming NASA missions, we must
collectively broaden our communication regarding lists of useful elements,
their impact on planetary systems, and how they can be observed in the near and
long term.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1904.01438v2
The Discovery Potential of Space-Based Gravitational Wave Astronomy
A space-based interferometer operating in the previously unexplored mHz
gravitational band has tremendous discovery potential. If history is any guide,
the opening of a new spectral band will lead to the discovery of entirely new
sources and phenomena. The mHz band is ideally suited to exploring beyond
standard model processes in the early universe, and with the sensitivities that
can be reached with current technologies, the discovery space for exotic
astrophysical systems is vast.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1901.07571v1
Near-Field Cosmology with the Lowest-Mass Galaxies
The premise of "near-field cosmology" is that the study of nearby low-mass
galaxies on a star-by-star basis has implications that extend far beyond the
local Universe and include the nature of dark matter, lives and deaths of the
first stars, cosmic reionization, and galaxy formation across cosmic time. In
response to the Astro2020 call for science white papers, we provide a
high-level synopsis of several major questions in near-field cosmology, the
potential for transformative progress in the next decade and beyond, and
mechanisms for achieving these goals. Our recommendations include: (i)
obtaining kinematic information from large samples of individual line-of-sight
and transverse velocities of stars and from spatially resolved gas observations
in nearby dwarf galaxies to directly inform our understanding of dark matter
interactions in the deeply nonlinear regime; and (ii) an intensive program of
optical imaging and UV and optical spectroscopy of resolved stars in low-mass
galaxies, including low-metallicity massive stars and HII regions (which are
central to understanding faint galaxies at all earlier epochs). Realizing these
aims requires a large aperture ($\gtrsim 9$m) UV/optical space telescope, a
two-fold community investment in ground-based optical spectroscopy through both
ELTs and a dedicated wide-field spectroscopic survey on a 10m class telescope,
and radio facilities that can measure high-precision, spatially resolved
rotation curves of low-mass galaxies. Finally, we suggest that a servicing
mission to extend the life of HST beyond 2025 should be seriously explored.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05026v1
Astro2020 Science White Paper: Assembly of the Most Massive Clusters at
  Cosmic Noon
Galaxy evolution is driven by many complex interrelated processes as galaxies
accrete gas, form new stars, grow their stellar masses and central black holes,
and subsequently quench. The processes that drive these transformations is
poorly understood, but it is clear that the local environment on multiple
scales plays a significant role. Today's massive clusters are dominated by
spheroidal galaxies with low levels of star formation while those in the field
are mostly still actively forming their stars. In order to understand the
physical processes that drive both the mass build up in galaxies and the
quenching of star formation, we need to investigate galaxies and their
surrounding gas within and around the precursors of today's massive galaxy
clusters -- protoclusters at z>2. The transition period before protoclusters
began to quench and become the massive clusters we observe today is a crucial
time to investigate their properties and the mechanisms driving their
evolution. However, until now, progress characterizing the galaxies within
protoclusters has been slow, due the difficulty of obtaining highly complete
spectroscopic observations of faint galaxies at z>2 over large areas of the
sky. The next decade will see a transformational shift in our understanding of
protoclusters as deep spectroscopy over wide fields of view will be possible in
conjunction with high resolution deep imaging in the optical and near-infrared.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05094v1
Stellar multiplicity: an interdisciplinary nexus
Our uncertainties about binary star systems (and triples and so on) limit our
capabilities in literally every single one of the Thematic Areas identified for
Astro2020. We need to understand the population statistics of stellar
multiplicity and their variations with stellar type, chemistry, and dynamical
environment: Correct interpretation of any exoplanet experiment depends on
proper treatment of resolved and unresolved binaries; stellar multiplicity is a
direct outcome of star and companion formation; the most precise constraints on
stellar structure come from well-characterized binary systems; stellar
populations heavily rely on stellar and binary evolution modeling;
high-redshift galaxy radiation and reionization is controlled by
binary-dependent stellar physics; compact objects are the outcomes of binary
evolution; the interpretation of multi-messenger astronomy from gravitational
waves, light, and neutrinos relies on understanding the products of binary star
evolution; near-Universe constraints on the Hubble constant with Type Ia
supernovae and gravitational-wave mergers are subject to systematics related to
their binary star progenitors; local measures of dark-matter substructure
masses are distorted by binary populations. In order to realize the scientific
goals in each of these themes over the next decade, we therefore need to
understand how binary stars and stellar multiplets are formed and distributed
in the space of masses, composition, age, and orbital properties, and how the
distribution evolves with time. This white paper emphasizes the
interdisciplinary importance of binary-star science and advocates that
coordinated investment from all astrophysical communities will benefit almost
all branches of astrophysics.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.07295v1
Astro2020 Science White Paper: ISM and CGM in external galaxies
The wavelength range 912-2000A (hereafter far-UV) provides access to
absorption lines of the interstellar medium (ISM), circumgalactic medium (CGM),
and intergalactic medium (IGM) in phases spanning a wide range of ionization,
density, temperature, and molecular gas fraction. Far-UV space telescopes have
enabled detailed studies of the ISM in the Milky Way, paving the way to
understand in particular depletion of elements by condensation onto dust
grains, molecular gas formation pathways, ionization processes, and the
dynamics of shocks. An interesting prospect is to transpose the same level of
details to the ISM in external galaxies, in particular in metal-poor galaxies,
where the ISM chemical composition, physical conditions, and topology
(arrangement of various phases) change dramatically, with significant
consequences on the star-formation properties and on the overall galaxy
evolution. To circumvent current systematic biases in column density
determinations and to examine the ISM enrichment as a function of the
environment, we advocate for a versatile far-UV space mission able to observe
individual O/B stars or stellar clusters in galaxies up to few 100s Mpc away
with a spectral resolution power R~10^{4-5}. Such requirements would also make
it possible to probe multiple quasar lines of sight intersecting the CGM of
galaxies at various redshifts, making it possible to reconcile the various
physical scales and phases and to comprehend the role of gas exchanges and
flows for galaxy evolution.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1904.00217v1
Astro2020 White Paper: A Direct Measure of Cosmic Acceleration
Nearly a century after the discovery that we live in an expanding Universe,
and two decades after the discovery of accelerating cosmic expansion, there
remains no direct detection of this acceleration via redshift drift - a change
in the cosmological expansion velocity versus time. Because cosmological
redshift drift directly determines the Hubble parameter H(z), it is arguably
the cleanest possible measurement of the expansion history, and has the
potential to constrain dark energy models (e.g. Kim et al. 2015). The challenge
is that the signal is small - the best observational constraint presently has
an uncertainty several orders of magnitude larger than the expected signal
(Darling 2012). Nonetheless, direct detection of redshift drift is becoming
feasible, with upcoming facilities such as the ESO-ELT and SKA projecting
possible detection within two to three decades. This timescale is uncomfortably
long given the potential of this cosmological test. With dedicated experiments
it should be possible to rapidly accelerate progress and detect redshift drift
with only a five-year observational baseline. Such a facility would also be
ideal for precision radial velocity measurements of exoplanets, which could be
obtained as a byproduct of the ongoing calibration measurements for the
experiment.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05130v1
Astro2020 Science White Paper: Science Platforms for Resolved Stellar
  Populations in the Next Decade
Over the past decade, research in resolved stellar populations has made great
strides in exploring the nature of dark matter, in unraveling the star
formation, chemical enrichment, and dynamical histories of the Milky Way and
nearby galaxies, and in probing fundamental physics from general relativity to
the structure of stars. Large surveys have been particularly important to the
biggest of these discoveries. In the coming decade, current and planned surveys
will push these research areas still further through a large variety of
discovery spaces, giving us unprecedented views into the low surface brightness
Universe, the high surface brightness Universe, the 3D motions of stars, the
time domain, and the chemical abundances of stellar populations. These
discovery spaces will be opened by a diverse range of facilities, including the
continuing Gaia mission, imaging machines like LSST and WFIRST, massively
multiplexed spectroscopic platforms like DESI, Subaru-PFS, and MSE, and
telescopes with high sensitivity and spatial resolution like JWST, the ELTs,
and LUVOIR. We do not know which of these facilities will prove most critical
for resolved stellar populations research in the next decade. We can predict,
however, that their chance of success will be maximized by granting use of the
data to broad communities, that many scientific discoveries will draw on a
combination of data from them, and that advances in computing will enable
increasingly sophisticated analyses of the large and complex datasets that they
will produce. We recommend that Astro2020 1) acknowledge the critical role that
data archives will play for stellar populations and other science in the next
decade, 2) recognize the opportunity that advances in computing will bring for
survey data analysis, and 3) consider investments in Science Platform
technology to bring these opportunities to fruition.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04333v1
Fundamental Physics with High-Energy Cosmic Neutrinos
High-energy cosmic neutrinos can reveal new fundamental particles and
interactions, probing energy and distance scales far exceeding those accessible
in the laboratory. This white paper describes the outstanding particle physics
questions that high-energy cosmic neutrinos can address in the coming decade. A
companion white paper discusses how the observation of cosmic neutrinos can
address open questions in astrophysics. Tests of fundamental physics using
high-energy cosmic neutrinos will be enabled by detailed measurements of their
energy spectrum, arrival directions, flavor composition, and timing.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04334v1
Astrophysics Uniquely Enabled by Observations of High-Energy Cosmic
  Neutrinos
High-energy cosmic neutrinos carry unique information about the most
energetic non-thermal sources in the Universe. This white paper describes the
outstanding astrophysics questions that neutrino astronomy can address in the
coming decade. A companion white paper discusses how the observation of cosmic
neutrinos can address open questions in fundamental physics. Detailed
measurements of the diffuse neutrino flux, measurements of neutrinos from point
sources, and multi-messenger observations with neutrinos will enable the
discovery and characterization of the most energetic sources in the Universe.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.09150v1
Understanding Exoplanet Atmospheres with UV Observations I: NUV and
  Blue/Optical
Much of the focus of exoplanet atmosphere analysis in the coming decade will
be atinfrared wavelengths, with the planned launches of the James Webb Space
Telescope (JWST) and the Wide-Field Infrared Survey Telescope (WFIRST).
However, without being placed in the context of broader wavelength coverage,
especially in the optical and ultraviolet, infrared observations produce an
incomplete picture of exoplanet atmospheres. Scattering information encoded in
blue optical and near-UV observations can help determine whether muted spectral
features observed in the infrared are due to a hazy/cloudy atmosphere, or a
clear atmosphere with a higher mean molecular weight. UV observations can
identify atmospheric escape and mass loss from exoplanet atmospheres, providing
a greater understanding of the atmospheric evolution of exoplanets, along with
composition information from above the cloud deck. In this white paper we focus
on the science case for exoplanet observations in the near-UV; an accompanying
white paper led by Eric Lopez will focus on the science case in the far-UV.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.10669v1
Understanding Exoplanet Atmospheres with UV Observations II: The Far UV
  and Atmospheric Escape
Much of the focus of exoplanet atmosphere analysis in the coming decade will
be at infrared wavelengths, with the planned launches of the James Webb Space
Telescope (JWST) and the Wide-Field Infrared Survey Telescope (WFIRST).
However, without being placed in the context of broader wavelength coverage,
especially in the optical and ultraviolet, infrared observations produce an
incomplete picture of exoplanet atmospheres. Scattering information encoded in
blue optical and near-UV (NUV) observations can help determine whether muted
spectral features observed in the infrared are due to a hazy/cloudy atmosphere,
or a clear atmosphere with a higher mean molecular weight. Farther into the UV,
observations can identify atmospheric escape and mass loss from exoplanet
atmospheres, providing a greater understanding of the atmospheric evolution of
exoplanets, along with composition information from above the cloud deck. In
this white paper we focus on the science case for exoplanet observations in the
far-UV (FUV); an accompanying white paper led by Jessie Christiansen will focus
on the science case in the near-UV (NUV) and blue/optical.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.06678v1
Astro2020 Science White Paper: Spatially Resolved UV Nebular Diagnostics
  in Star-Forming Galaxies
Diagnosing the physical and chemical conditions within star-forming galaxies
(SFGs) is of paramount importance to understanding key components of galaxy
formation and evolution: star-formation, gas enrichment, outflows, and
accretion. Well established optical emission-line diagnostics used to discern
such properties (i.e., metal content, density, strength/shape of ionizing
radiation) will be observationally inaccessible for the earliest galaxies,
emphasizing the need for robust, reliable interstellar medium (ISM) diagnostics
at ultraviolet (UV) wavelengths. Calibrating these UV diagnostics requires a
comprehensive comparison of the UV and optical emission lines in nearby SFGs.
Optical integral field unit (IFU) surveys have revealed the inhomogeneous
nature of the ISM in SFGs, which leads to non-systematic biases in the
interpretation of unresolved sources. Spatial variations are especially
important to consider at UV wavelengths, where the strongest emission features
originate from only the highest excitation regions of the nebula and are
challenging to distinguish from competing high-ionization sources (e.g.,
shocks, AGN, etc.). Since surveys collecting large-scale optical integral field
unit (IFU) spectroscopy are already underway, this white paper calls for an IFU
or multi-object far-UV (FUV) spectroscopic instrument with high sensitivity,
high spatial resolution, and large field of view (FoV). Given the impact of
large-scale optical IFU surveys over the past decade, this white paper
emphasizes the scientific need for a comparable foundation of
spatially-resolved far-UV spectroscopy survey of nearby galaxies that will lay
the foundation of diagnostics critical to the interpretation of the distant
universe.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04472v1
Gamma Rays and Gravitational Waves
The first multimessenger observation of a neutron star merger was
independently detected in gamma-rays by Fermi-GBM and INTEGRAL SPI-ACS and
gravitational waves by Advanced LIGO and Advanced Virgo. Gravitational waves
are emitted from systems with accelerating quadrupole moments, and detectable
sources are expected to be compact objects. Nearly all distant astrophysical
gamma-ray sources are compact objects. Therefore, serendipitous observations of
these two messengers will continue to uncover the sources of gravitational
waves and gamma-rays, and enable multimessenger science across the Astro2020
thematic areas. This requires upgrades to the ground-based gravitational wave
network and ~keV-MeV gamma-ray coverage for observations of neutron star
mergers, and broadband coverage in both gravitational waves and gamma-rays to
monitor other expected joint sources.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04525v1
Astro2020 Science White Paper: What is the lifecycle of gas and stars in
  galaxy centers?
The closest galaxy center, our own Central Molecular Zone (CMZ; the central
500 pc of the Milky Way), is a powerful laboratory for studying the secular
processes that shape galaxies across cosmic time, from large-scale gas flows
and star formation to stellar feedback and interaction with a central
supermassive black hole. Research over the last decade has revealed that the
process of converting gas into stars in galaxy centers differs from that in
galaxy disks. The CMZ is the only galaxy center in which we can identify and
weigh individual forming stars, so it is the key location to establish the
physical laws governing star formation and feedback under the conditions that
dominate star formation across cosmic history. Large-scale surveys of molecular
and atomic gas within the inner kiloparsec of the Milky Way (~10 degrees) will
require efficient mapping capabilities on single-dish radio telescopes.
Characterizing the detailed star formation process will require large-scale,
high-resolution surveys of the protostellar populations and small-scale gas
structure with dedicated surveys on the Atacama Large Millimeter/submillimeter
Array, and eventually with the James Webb Space Telescope, the Next Generation
Very Large Array, and the Origins Space Telescope.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05602v1
Astro2020: Molecular Masers as Probes of the Dynamic Atmospheres of
  Dying Stars
More than half of the dust and heavy element enrichment in galaxies
originates from the winds and outflows of evolved, low-to-intermediate mass
stars on the asymptotic giant branch (AGB). However, numerous details of the
physics of late-stage stellar mass loss remain poorly understood, ranging from
the wind launching mechanism(s) to the geometry and timescales of the mass
loss. One of the major challenges to understanding AGB winds is that the AGB
evolutionary phase is characterized by the interplay between highly complex and
dynamic processes, including radial pulsations, shocks, magnetic fields,
opacity changes due to dust and molecule formation, and large-scale convective
flows. Collectively, these phenomena lead to changes in the observed stellar
properties on timescales of days to years. Probing the complex atmospheric
physics of AGB stars therefore demands exquisite spatial resolution, coupled
with temporal monitoring over both short and long timescales. Observations of
the molecular maser lines that arise in the winds and outflows of AGB stars
using very long baseline interferometry (VLBI) offer one of the most powerful
tools available to measure the atmospheric dynamics, physical conditions, and
magnetic fields with ultra-high spatial resolution (i.e., up to tens of
microarcseconds, corresponding to ~0.002R* at d~150pc), coupled with the
ability to track features and phenomena on timescales of days to years.
Observational advances in the coming decade will enable contemporaneous
observations of an unprecedented number of maser transitions spanning
centimeter to submillimeter wavelengths. In evolved stars, observations of
masers within the winds and outflows are poised to provide groundbreaking new
insights into the atmospheric physics and mass-loss process.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.06027v2
ASTRO2020 White Paper: JWST: Probing the Epoch of Reionization with a
  Wide Field Time-Domain Survey
A major scientific goal of JWST is to probe the epoch of re-ionization of the
Universe at z above 6, and up to 20 and beyond. At these redshifts, galaxies
are just beginning to form and the observable objects are early black holes,
supernovae, and cosmic infrared background. The JWST has the necessary
sensitivity to observe these targets individually, but a public deep and wide
science enabling survey in the wavelength range from 2-5 $\mu$m is needed to
discover these black holes and supernovae and to cover the area large enough
for cosmic infrared background to be reliably studied. This enabling survey
will also discover a large number of other transients and enable sciences such
as supernova cosmology up to z $\sim$ 5, star formation history at high
redshift through supernova explosions, faint stellar objects in the Milky Way,
and galaxy evolution up to z approaching 10. The results of this survey will
also serve as an invaluable target feeder for the upcoming era of ELT and SKA.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.10589v1
Astro2020 Science White Paper: Radio Counterparts of Compact Object
  Mergers in the Era of Gravitational-Wave Astronomy
GHz radio astronomy has played a fundamental role in the recent dazzling
discovery of GW170817, a neutron star (NS)-NS merger observed in both
gravitational waves (GWs) and light at all wavelengths. Here we show how the
expected progress in sensitivity of ground-based GW detectors over the next
decade calls for U.S.-based GHz radio arrays to be improved beyond current
levels. We discuss specifically how several new scientific opportunities would
emerge in multi-messenger time-domain astrophysics if a next generation GHz
radio facility with sensitivity and resolution $10\times$ better than the
current Jansky Very Large Array (VLA) were to work in tandem with ground-based
GW detectors. These opportunities include probing the properties, structure,
and size of relativistic jets and wide-angle ejecta from NS-NS mergers, as well
as unraveling the physics of their progenitors via host galaxy studies.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.11212v2
Circumgalactic Gas and the Precipitation Limit
During the last decade, numerous and varied observations, along with
increasingly sophisticated numerical simulations, have awakened astronomers to
the central role the circumgalactic medium (CGM) plays in regulating galaxy
evolution. It contains the majority of the baryonic matter associated with a
galaxy, along with most of the metals, and must continually replenish the star
forming gas in galaxies that continue to sustain star formation. And while the
CGM is complex, containing gas ranging over orders of magnitude in temperature
and density, a simple emergent property may be governing its structure and
role. Observations increasingly suggest that the ambient CGM pressure cannot
exceed the limit at which cold clouds start to condense out and precipitate
toward the center of the potential well. If feedback fueled by those clouds
then heats the CGM and causes it to expand, the pressure will drop and the
"rain" will diminish. Such a feedback loop tends to suspend the CGM at the
threshold pressure for precipitation. The coming decade will offer many
opportunities to test this potentially fundamental principle of galaxy
evolution.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.12025v1
Astro2020 Science White Paper: The fundamentals of outflows from evolved
  stars
Models of the chemical evolution of the interstellar medium, galaxies, and
the Universe rely on our understanding of the amounts and chemical composition
of the material returned by stars and supernovae. Stellar yields are obtained
from stellar-evolution models, which currently lack predictive prescriptions of
stellar mass loss, although it significantly affects stellar lifetimes,
nucleosynthesis, and chemical ejecta. Galaxy properties are derived from
observations of the integrated light of bright member stars. Stars in the late
stages of their evolution are among the infrared-brightest objects in galaxies.
An unrealistic treatment of the mass-loss process introduces significant
uncertainties in galaxy properties derived from their integrated light. We
describe current efforts and future needs and opportunities to characterize AGB
outflows: driving mechanisms, outflow rates, underlying fundamental physical
and chemical processes such as dust grain formation, and dependency of these on
metallicity.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1904.01773v1
Astro2020: From Stars to Compact Objects: The Initial-Final Mass
  Relation
One of the key phases of stellar evolution that remains poorly understood is
stellar death. We lack a predictive model for how a star of a given mass
explodes and what kind of remnant it leaves behind (i.e. the initial-final mass
relation, IFMR). Progress has been limited due to the difficulty in finding and
weighing black holes and neutron stars in large numbers. Technological advances
that allow for sub-milliarcsecond astrometry in crowded fields have opened a
new window for finding black holes and neutron stars: astrometric gravitational
lensing. Finding and weighing a sample of compact objects with astrometric
microlensing will allow us to place some of the first constraints on the
present-day mass function of isolated black holes and neutron stars, their
multiplicity, and their kick velocities. All of these are fundamental inputs
into understanding the death phase of stellar evolution, improving supernovae
models, and interpreting LIGO detections in an astrophysical context. To
achieve these goals, we require large area surveys, such as the WFIRST
exoplanet microlensing survey, to photometrically identify long-duration (>120
day), un-blended microlensing events as candidate compact objects. We also
require high-precision astrometric follow-up monitoring using extremely large
telescopes, equipped with adaptive optics, such as TMT and GMT.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.06218v1
Astro2020 Science White Paper: First Stars and Black Holes at Cosmic
  Dawn with Redshifted 21-cm Observations
The "cosmic dawn" refers to the period of the Universe's history when stars
and black holes first formed and began heating and ionizing hydrogen in the
intergalactic medium (IGM). Though exceedingly difficult to detect directly,
the first stars and black holes can be constrained indirectly through
measurements of the cosmic 21-cm background, which traces the ionization state
and temperature of intergalactic hydrogen gas. In this white paper, we focus on
the science case for such observations, in particular those targeting redshifts
z $\gtrsim$ 10 when the IGM is expected to be mostly neutral. 21-cm
observations provide a unique window into this epoch and are thus critical to
advancing first star and black hole science in the next decade.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1904.05957v1
Astro2020 Science White Paper: Discovery Frontiers of Explosive
  Transients - An ELT & LSST Perspective
The Large Synoptic Survey Telescope (LSST) will open a discovery frontier for
faint and fast transients with its ability to detect variable flux components
down to $\sim$24.5 mag in a $\sim$30 second exposure. Spectroscopic follow-up
of such phenomena - which are necessary for understanding the physics of
stellar explosions - can require a rapid response and several hours with a
8-10m telescope, making it both expensive and difficult to acquire. The future
Extremely Large Telescopes (ELTs) would be able to provide not only
spectroscopy but capabilities such as spectropolarimetry and high-resolution
diffraction-limited imaging that would contribute to future advances in our
physical understanding of stellar explosions. In this white paper we focus on
several specific scientific impacts in the field of explosive transient
astrophysics that will be generated by the combination of LSST's discovery
abilities and ELTs' follow-up capacities. First, we map the uncharted frontier
of discovery phase-space in terms of intrinsic luminosity and timescales for
explosive transients, where we expect the unexpected. We then focus on six
areas with open science questions for known transients: the progenitors of
thermonuclear supernovae (SNe), mass loss prior to core collapse, asymmetry in
stellar explosions, light echoes, high-$z$ transients, and strongly lensed SNe.
We conclude with a brief discussion of the practical aspects of ELT & LSST
synergy.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1904.04839v2
Astro 2020 Science White Paper: Evolved Planetary Systems around White
  Dwarfs
Practically all known planet hosts will evolve into white dwarfs, and large
parts of their planetary systems will survive this transition - the same is
true for the solar system beyond the orbit of Mars. Spectroscopy of white
dwarfs accreting planetary debris provides the most accurate insight into the
bulk composition of exo-planets. Ground-based spectroscopic surveys of ~260,
000 white dwarfs detected with Gaia will identify >1000 evolved planetary
systems, and high-throughput high-resolution space-based ultraviolet
spectroscopy is essential to measure in detail their abundances. So far,
evidence for two planetesimals orbiting closely around white dwarfs has been
obtained, and their study provides important constraints on the composition and
internal structure of these bodies. Major photometric and spectroscopic efforts
will be necessary to assemble a sample of such close-in planetesimals that is
sufficiently large to establish their properties as a population, and to deduce
the architectures of the outer planetary systems from where they originated.
Mid-infrared spectroscopy of the dusty disks will provide detailed
mineralogical information of the debris, which, in combination with the
elemental abundances measured from the white dwarf spectroscopy, will enable
detailed physical modelling of the chemical, thermodynamic, and physical
history of the accreted material. Flexible multi-epoch infrared observations
are essential to determine the physical nature, and origin of the variability
observed in many of the dusty disks. Finally, the direct detection of the outer
reservoirs feeding material to the white dwarfs will require sensitive mid- and
far-infrared capabilities.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.03628v1
Astro2020 Science White Paper: A proposal to exploit galaxy-21cm
  synergies to shed light on the Epoch of Reionization
This white paper highlights the crucial and urgent synergies required between
WFIRST, Subaru Hyper Suprime-Cam or other >25m-class telescopes galaxy
observations and SKA 21cm measurements to constrain the nature of reionization
(ionization history and topology) and its sources.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05287v1
X-ray follow-up of extragalactic transients
Most violent and energetic processes in our universe, including mergers of
compact objects, explosions of massive stars and extreme accretion events,
produce copious amounts of X-rays. X-ray follow-up is an efficient tool for
identifying transients because (1) X-rays can quickly localize transients with
large error circles, and (2) X-rays reveal the nature of transients that may
not have unique signatures at other wavelengths. In this white paper, we
identify key science questions about several extragalactic multi-messenger and
multi-wavelength transients, and demonstrate how X-ray follow-up helps answer
these questions

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05719v1
EUV observations of cool dwarf stars
The EUV (100-912 {\AA}) is a spectral region notoriously difficult to observe
due to attenuation by neutral hydrogen gas in the interstellar medium. Despite
this, hundreds to thousands of nearby stars of different spectral types and
magnetic activity levels are accessible in the EUV range. The EUV probes
interesting and complicated regions in the stellar atmosphere like the lower
corona and transition region that are inaccessible from other spectral regions.
In this white paper we describe how direct EUV observations, which require a
dedicated grazing-incidence observatory, cannot yet be accurately substituted
with models and theory. Exploring EUV emission from cool dwarf stars in the
time domain can make a major contribution to understanding stellar outer
atmospheres and magnetism, and offers the clearest path toward detecting
coronal mass ejections on stars other than the Sun.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.06587v1
The trail of water and the delivery of volatiles to habitable planets
Water is fundamental to our understanding of the evolution of planetary
systems and the delivery of volatiles to the surfaces of potentially habitable
planets. Yet, we currently have essentially no facilities capable of observing
this key species comprehensively. With this white paper, we argue that we need
a relatively large, cold space-based observatory equipped with a
high-resolution spectrometer, in the mid- through far-infrared wavelength range
(25-600~$\mu$m) in order to answer basic questions about planet formation, such
as where the Earth got its water, how giant planets and planetesimals grow, and
whether water is generally available to planets forming in the habitable zone
of their host stars.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.06816v1
On the Use of Planetary Science Data for Studying Extrasolar Planets
There is an opportunity to advance both solar system and extrasolar planetary
studies that does not require the construction of new telescopes or new
missions but better use and access to inter-disciplinary data sets. This
approach leverages significant investment from NASA and international space
agencies in exploring this solar system and using those discoveries as "ground
truth" for the study of extrasolar planets. This white paper illustrates the
potential, using phase curves and atmospheric modeling as specific examples. A
key advance required to realize this potential is to enable seamless discovery
and access within and between planetary science and astronomical data sets.
Further, seamless data discovery and access also expands the availability of
science, allowing researchers and students at a variety of institutions,
equipped only with Internet access and a decent computer to conduct
cutting-edge research.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.06834v1
LSST Narrowband Filters
In this white paper, we present the scientific cases for adding narrowband
optical filters to the Large Synoptic Survey Telescope (LSST). LSST is
currently planning to observe the southern sky in 6 broadband optical filters.
Three of the four LSST science themes would benefit from adding narrowband
filter observations. We discuss the technical considerations of using
narrowband filters with the LSST and lay out the scientific impact that would
result on the study of AGB stars, emission line nebula (e.g., supernova
remnants and planetary nebulae), photometric redshifts of galaxies, and the
determination of stellar parameters.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.06944v1
Astro2020 Science White Paper: Synoptic Studies of the Sun as a Key to
  Understanding Stellar Astrospheres
Ground-based solar observations provide key contextual data (i.e., the 'big
picture') to produce a complete description of the only astrosphere we can
study in situ: our Sun's heliosphere. The next decade will see the beginning of
operations of the Daniel K. Inouye Solar Telescope (DKIST). DKIST will join
NASA's Parker Solar Probe and the NASA/ESA Solar Orbital mission, which
together will study our Sun's atmosphere with unprecedented detail. This white
paper outlines the current paradigm for ground-based solar synoptic
observations, and indicates those areas that will benefit from focused
attention.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.07716v1
Engaging Citizen Scientists to Keep Transit Times Fresh and Ensure the
  Efficient Use of Transiting Exoplanet Characterization Missions
This white paper advocates for the creation of a community-wide program to
maintain precise mid-transit times of exoplanets that would likely be targeted
by future platforms. Given the sheer number of targets that will require
careful monitoring between now and the launch of the next generation of
exoplanet characterization missions, this network will initially be devised as
a citizen science project -- focused on the numerous amateur astronomers, small
universities and community colleges and high schools that have access to modest
sized telescopes and off-the-shelf CCDs.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.07760v1
High-Energy Astrophysics in the 2020s and Beyond
With each passing decade, we gain new appreciation for the dynamic,
connected, and often violent nature of the Universe. This reality necessarily
places the study of high-energy processes at the very heart of modern
astrophysics. This White Paper illustrates the central role of high-energy
astrophysics to some of the most pressing astrophysical problems of our time,
the formation/evolution of galaxies, the origin of the heavy elements, star and
planet formation, the emergence of life on exoplanets, and the search for new
physics. We also highlight the new connections that are growing between
astrophysicists and plasma physicists. We end with a discussion of the
challenges that must be addressed to realize the potential of these
connections, including the need for integrated planning across physics and
astronomy programs in multiple agencies, and the need to foster the creativity
and career aspirations of individual scientists in this era of large projects.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.09110v1
Mapping out the time-evolution of exoplanet processes
There are many competing theories and models describing the formation,
migration and evolution of exoplanet systems. As both the precision with which
we can characterize exoplanets and their host stars, and the number of systems
for which we can make such a characterization increase, we begin to see
pathways forward for validating these theories. In this white paper we identify
predicted, observable correlations that are accessible in the near future,
particularly trends in exoplanet populations, radii, orbits and atmospheres
with host star age. By compiling a statistically significant sample of
well-characterized exoplanets with precisely measured ages, we should be able
to begin identifying the dominant processes governing the time-evolution of
exoplanet systems.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.09677v1
Supernova Remnants in High Definition
Supernova remnants (SNRs) offer the means to study SN explosions, dynamics,
and shocks at sub-parsec scales. X-ray observations probe the hot metals
synthesized in the explosion and the TeV electrons accelerated by the shocks,
and thus they are key to test recent, high-fidelity three-dimensional SN
simulations. In this white paper, we discuss the major advances possible with
X-ray spectro-imaging at arcsecond scales, with a few eV spectral resolution
and a large effective area. These capabilities would revolutionize SN science,
offering a three-dimensional view of metals synthesized in explosions and
enabling population studies of SNRs in Local Group galaxies. Moreover, this
future X-ray mission could detect faint, narrow synchrotron filaments and shock
precursors that will constrain the diffusive shock acceleration process.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1904.05938v1
Astro 2020 Science White Paper: Cosmic-ray Antinuclei as Messengers for
  Dark Matter
The origin of dark matter is a driving question of modern physics. Low-energy
antideuterons provide a "smoking gun" signature of dark matter annihilation or
decay, essentially free of astrophysical background. Low-energy antiprotons are
a vital partner for this analysis, and low-energy antihelium could provide
further discovery space for new physics. In the coming decade, AMS-02 will
continue accumulating the large statistics and systematic understanding
necessary for it to probe rare antinuclei signatures, and GAPS, which is the
first experiment optimized specifically for low-energy cosmic antinuclei, will
begin several Antarctic balloon campaigns. The connection of cosmic-ray
antinuclei and dark matter is reviewed and the outlook in light of experimental
progress is presented.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1904.06600v1
High-Resolution X-ray Imaging Studies of Neutron Stars, Pulsar Wind
  Nebulae and Supernova Remnants
Supernova remnants serve as nearby laboratories relevant to many areas in
Astrophysics, from stellar and galaxy evolution to extreme astrophysics and the
formation of the heavy elements in the Universe. The Chandra X-ray mission has
enabled a giant leap forward in studying both SNRs and their compact stellar
remnants on sub-arcsecond scale. However, such high-resolution imaging studies
have been mostly limited to the nearby and/or relatively bright objects. There
is no question that we are missing a large population, especially in external
galaxies. Within our own Galaxy, we are presented with new fundamental
questions related to neutron stars' diversity, kicks, relativistic winds and
the way these objects interact with, and impact, their host environments. In
this white paper, we highlight some of the breakthroughs to be achieved with
future X-ray missions (such as the proposed AXIS probe) equipped with
sub-arcsecond imaging resolution and an order of magnitude improvement in
sensitivity.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04634v1
Energetic Particles of Cosmic Accelerators I: Galactic Accelerators
The high-energy universe has revealed that energetic particles are ubiquitous
in the cosmos and play a vital role in the cultivation of cosmic environments
on all scales. Energetic particles in our own galaxy, galactic cosmic rays
(GCRs), engage in a complex interplay with the interstellar medium and magnetic
fields in the galaxy, giving rise to many of its key characteristics. This
White Paper is the first of a two-part series highlighting the most well-known
high-energy cosmic accelerators and contributions that MeV gamma-ray astronomy
will bring to understanding their energetic particle phenomena. The focus of
this white paper is galactic cosmic rays, supernova remnants, protostellar jets
and superbubbles, and colliding wind binaries.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04639v1
Energetic Particles of Cosmic Accelerators II: Active Galactic Nuclei
  and Gamma-ray Bursts
The high-energy universe has revealed that energetic particles are ubiquitous
in the cosmos and play a vital role in the cultivation of cosmic environments
on all scales. Though they play a key role in cultivating the cosmological
environment and/or enabling our studies of it, there is still much we do not
know about AGNs and GRBs, particularly the avenue in which and through which
they supply radiation and energetic particles, namely their jets. This White
Paper is the second of a two-part series highlighting the most well-known
high-energy cosmic accelerators and contributions that MeV gamma-ray astronomy
will bring to understanding their energetic particle phenomena. The focus of
this white paper is active galactic nuclei and gamma-ray bursts.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.07553v1
Prospects for AGN Studies at Hard X-ray through MeV Energies
This White Paper explores advances in the study of Active Galaxies which will
be enabled by new observing capabilities at MeV energies (hard X-rays to
gamma-rays; 0.1-1000 MeV), with a focus on multi-wavelength synergies. This
spectral window, covering four decades in energy, is one of the last frontiers
for which we lack sensitive observations. Only the COMPTEL mission, which flew
in the 1990s, has significantly probed this energy range, detecting a handful
of AGN. In comparison, the currently active Fermi Gamma-ray Space Telescope,
observing at the adjacent range of 0.1-100 GeV, is 100-1000 times more
sensitive. This White Paper describes advances to be made in the study of
sources as diverse as tidal disruption events, jetted AGN of all classes
(blazars, compact steep-spectrum sources, radio galaxies and relics) as well as
radio-quiet AGN, most of which would be detected for the first time in this
energy regime. New and existing technologies will enable MeV observations at
least 50-100 times more sensitive than COMPTEL, revealing new source
populations and addressing several open questions, including the nature of the
corona emission in non-jetted AGN, the precise level of the optical
extragalactic background light, the accretion mode in low-luminosity AGN, and
the structure and particle content of extragalactic jets.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05665v1
Astro2020 Science White Paper: Toward Finding Earth 2.0: Masses and
  Orbits of Small Planets with Extreme Radial Velocity Precision
Having discovered that Earth-sized planets are common, we are now embarking
on a journey to determine if Earth-like planets are also common. Finding
Earth-like planets is one of the most compelling endeavors of the 21st century
- leading us toward finally answering the question: Are we alone? To achieve
this forward-looking goal, we must determine the masses of the planets; the
sizes of the planets, by themselves, are not sufficient for the determination
of the bulk and atmospheric compositions. Masses, coupled with the radii, are
crucial constraints on the bulk composition and interior structure of the
planets and the composition of their atmospheres, including the search for
biosignatures. Precision radial velocity is the most viable technique for
providing essential mass and orbit information for spectroscopy of other
Earths. The development of high quality precision radial velocity instruments
coupled to the building of the large telescope facilities like TMT and GMT or
space-based platforms like EarthFinder can enable very high spectral resolution
observations with extremely precise radial velocities on minute timescales to
allow for the modeling and removal of radial velocity jitter. Over the next
decade, the legacy of exoplanet astrophysics can be cemented firmly as part of
humankind's quest in finding the next Earth - but only if we can measure the
masses and orbits of Earth-sized planets in habitable zone orbits around
Sun-like stars.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.08753v1
Astro2020 Science White Paper: Triggered High-Priority Observations of
  Dynamic Solar System Phenomena
Unexpected dynamic phenomena have surprised solar system observers in the
past and have led to important discoveries about solar system workings.
Observations at the initial stages of these events provide crucial information
on the physical processes at work. We advocate for long-term/permanent programs
on ground-based and space-based telescopes of all sizes - including Extremely
Large Telescopes (ELTs) - to conduct observations of high-priority dynamic
phenomena, based on a predefined set of triggering conditions. These programs
will ensure that the best initial dataset of the triggering event are taken;
separate additional observing programs will be required to study the temporal
evolution of these phenomena. While not a comprehensive list, the following are
notional examples of phenomena that are rare, that cannot be anticipated, and
that provide high-impact advances to our understandings of planetary processes.
Examples include: new cryovolcanic eruptions or plumes on ocean worlds; impacts
on Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus, or Neptune; extreme eruptions on Io; convective
superstorms on Saturn, Uranus, or Neptune; collisions within the asteroid belt
or other small-body populations; discovery of an interstellar object passing
through our solar system (e.g. 'Oumuamua); and responses of planetary
atmospheres to major solar flares or coronal mass ejections.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1904.01661v1
Astro2020 Science White Paper: Physical Conditions in the Cold Gas of
  Local Galaxies
We describe a next major frontier in observational studies of galaxy
evolution and star formation: linking the physical conditions in the cold,
star-forming interstellar medium to host galaxy and local environment. The
integrated gas content of galaxies has been surveyed extensively over the last
decades. The link between environment and cold gas density, turbulence,
excitation, dynamical state, and chemical makeup remain far less well
understood. We know that these properties do vary dramatically and theoretical
work posits a strong connection between the state of the gas, its ability to
form stars, and the impact of stellar feedback. A next major step in the field
will be to use sensitive cm-, mm-, and submm-wave spectroscopy and high
resolution spectroscopic imaging to survey the state of cold gas across the
whole local galaxy population. Such observations have pushed the capabilities
of the current generation of telescopes. We highlight three critical elements
for progress in the next decade: (1) robust support and aggressive development
of ALMA, (2) the deployment of very large heterodyne receiver arrays on single
dish telescopes, and (3) development of a new interferometric array that
dramatically improves on current capabilities at cm- and mm-wavelengths (~
1-115 GHz).

http://arxiv.org/abs/1904.08442v1
Astro2020 Science White Paper: The Formation and Evolution of Multiple
  Star Systems
Significant advances have been made over the past decade in the
characterization of multiple protostar systems, enabled by the Karl G. Jansky
Very Large Array (VLA), high-resolution infrared observations with the Hubble
Space Telescope, and ground-based facilities. To further understand the
mechanism(s) of multiple star formation, a combination of statistics,
high-angular resolution radio/millimeter continuum imaging, characterization of
kinematic structure, magnetic fields via polarimetry, and comparison with
numerical simulations are needed. Thus, understanding the origin of stellar
multiplicity in different regimes of companion separation will soon be within
reach. However, to overcome challenges that studies in this field are now
confronted with, a range of new capabilities are required: a new
millimeter/centimeter wave facility with 10 mas resolution at {\lambda}=1 cm,
space-based near to far-infrared observatories, continued development of low to
high resolution spectroscopy on 3m to 10m class telescopes, and an ELT-class
telescope with near to mid-infrared imaging/spectroscopic capability.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1904.08443v1
Astro2020 Science White Paper: Measuring Protostar Masses: The Key to
  Protostellar Evolution
Knowledge of protostellar evolution has been revolutionized with the advent
of surveys at near-infrared to submillimeter wavelengths. This has enabled the
bolometric luminosities and bolometric temperatures (traditional protostellar
evolution diagnostics) to be measured for large numbers of protostars. However,
further progress is difficult without knowing the masses of the central
protostars. Protostar masses can be most accurately determined via molecular
line kinematics from millimeter interferometers (i.e., ALMA). Theoretical
investigations have predicted the protostellar mass function (PMF) for various
protostellar mass accretion models, and it is now imperative to observationally
constrain its functional form. While ALMA has enabled protostellar mass
measurements, samples approaching 100 sources are necessary to constrain the
functional form of the PMF, and upgrades to ALMA and/or a new mm/cm facility
will increase the feasibility of measuring such a large number of protostar
masses. The masses of protostars will enable their stellar structure (radius
and intrinsic luminosity), evolution, and accretion histories to be better
understood. This is made more robust when effective temperatures and accretion
rates can be measured via ground/space-based near to mid-infrared spectroscopy.
Furthermore, access to supercomputing facilities is essential to fit the
protostar masses via radiative transfer modeling and updated
theoretical/numerical modeling of stellar structure may also be required.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1904.12967v1
Astro2020 Science White Paper - Quasar Microlensing: Revolutionizing our
  Understanding of Quasar Structure and Dynamics
Microlensing by stars within distant galaxies acting as strong gravitational
lenses of multiply-imaged quasars, provides a unique and direct measurement of
the internal structure of the lensed quasar on nano-arcsecond scales. The
measurement relies on the temporal variation of high-magnification caustic
crossings which vary on timescales of days to years. Multiwavelength
observations provide information from distinct emission regions in the quasar.
Through monitoring of these strong gravitational lenses, a full tomographic
view can emerge with Astronomical-Unit scale resolution. Work to date has
demonstrated the potential of this technique in about a dozen systems. In the
2020s there will be orders of magnitude more systems to work with. Monitoring
of lens systems for caustic-crossing events to enable triggering of
multi-platform, multi-wavelength observations in the 2020s will fulfill the
potential of quasar microlensing as a unique and comprehensive probe of active
black hole structure and dynamics.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.10616v1
Probing Unseen Planet Populations with Resolved Debris Disk Structures
Thousands of exoplanets have been found with many widely different from the
ones in our own system. Despite the success, systems with planets in wide
orbits analogous to those of Jupiter and Saturn, in the critical first several
hundred million years of evolution, are virtually unexplored. Where are the
low-mass planets that are hidden from our exoplanet detection techniques? Is
our Solar System's planetary architecture unique? High-fidelity debris disk
images offer an effective method to answer these questions. We can use them to
study the formation and evolution of low-mass planets from youth to the age of
the Solar System, providing snapshots of the complex processes and valuable
insights into the formation and migration history of giant planets at wide
orbits. This white paper focuses on resolving debris structures in thermal
emission that is applicable to a large unbiased sample. We summarize the
properties of the known debris disks and assess the feasibility of resolving
them within our current and future infrared and millimeter facilities by
adopting uniform criteria. JWST and the 9-m Origins Space Telescope are the
most promising missions in the coming decades to resolve almost half of the
known disks at high fidelity. Resolved debris structures at multiple
wavelengths and at all stages of evolution would reveal the properties of
unseen planet populations, enabling a unique demographic study of overall
planet formation and evolution.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.08381v1
The Promise of Data Science for the Technosignatures Field
This paper outlines some of the possible advancements for the
technosignatures searches using the new methods currently rapidly developing in
computer science, such as machine learning and deep learning. It also showcases
a couple of case studies of large research programs where such methods have
been already successfully implemented with notable results. We consider that
the availability of data from all sky, all the time observations paired with
the latest developments in computational capabilities and algorithms currently
used in artificial intelligence, including automation, will spur an
unprecedented development of the technosignatures search efforts.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1906.04729v1
B-mode Targets
The CMB-S4 Science Book, Astro2020 Science White Paper on gravitational
waves, and PICO report contain an extensive discussion of many ongoing and
planned efforts in the search for gravitational waved produced by inflation.
Here we give a short executive summary of the results obtained in our recent
papers, which specify the simplest available inflationary models providing
physically motivated targets for these searches. Our conclusions are specific
for the $10^{-3} \lesssim r \lesssim 10^{-2}$ range, where we present the
B-mode benchmarks of the U-duality symmetric class of $\alpha$-attractors, and
for $ r \lesssim 10^{-3}$, where we present B-mode targets, for which the
future precision measurements of $n_s$ will be decisive.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1902.10159v1
The Role of Machine Learning in the Next Decade of Cosmology
In recent years, machine learning (ML) methods have remarkably improved how
cosmologists can interpret data. The next decade will bring new opportunities
for data-driven cosmological discovery, but will also present new challenges
for adopting ML methodologies and understanding the results. ML could transform
our field, but this transformation will require the astronomy community to both
foster and promote interdisciplinary research endeavors.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.02781v1
Tests of General Relativity and Fundamental Physics with Space-based
  Gravitational Wave Detectors
Low-frequency gravitational-wave astronomy can perform precision tests of
general relativity and probe fundamental physics in a regime previously
inaccessible. A space-based detector will be a formidable tool to explore
gravity's role in the cosmos, potentially telling us if and where Einstein's
theory fails and providing clues about some of the greatest mysteries in
physics and astronomy, such as dark matter and the origin of the Universe.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.03689v1
Neutrino Mass from Cosmology: Probing Physics Beyond the Standard Model
Recent advances in cosmic observations have brought us to the verge of
discovery of the absolute scale of neutrino masses. Nonzero neutrino masses are
known evidence of new physics beyond the Standard Model. Our understanding of
the clustering of matter in the presence of massive neutrinos has significantly
improved over the past decade, yielding cosmological constraints that are
tighter than any laboratory experiment, and which will improve significantly
over the next decade, resulting in a guaranteed detection of the absolute
neutrino mass scale.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04065v1
Accretion in Stellar-Mass Black Holes at High X-ray Spectral Resolution
Accretion disks around stellar-mass black holes offer unique opportunities to
study the fundamental physics of standard thin disks, super-Eddington disks,
and structure that may be connected to flux variability. These local analogues
of active galactic nuclei (AGN) are particularly attractive for their
proximity, high flux, and peak emissivity in the X-ray band. X-ray calorimeter
spectrometers, with energy resolutions of 2-5 eV, are ideally suited to study
accretion in stellar-mass black holes. The results will make strong tests of
seminal disk theory that applies in a broad range of circumstances, help to
drive new numerical simulations, and will inform our understanding of AGN
fueling, evolution, and feedback.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04482v1
Tracing the Origins and Evolution of Small Planets using Their Orbital
  Obliquities
We recommend an intensive effort to survey and understand the obliquity
distribution of small close-in extrasolar planets over the coming decade. The
orbital obliquities of exoplanets--i.e., the relative orientation between the
planetary orbit and the stellar rotation--is a key tracer of how planets form
and migrate. While the orbital obliquities of smaller planets are poorly
explored today, a new generation of facilities coming online over the next
decade will make such observations possible en masse. Transit spectroscopic
observations with the extremely large telescopes will enable us to measure the
orbital obliquities of planets as small as $\sim2R_{\oplus}$ around a wide
variety of stars, opening a window into the orbital properties of the most
common types of planets. This effort will directly contribute to understanding
the formation and evolution of planetary systems, a key objective of the
National Academy of Sciences' Exoplanet Science Strategies report.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04559v1
Identification and characterization of the host stars in planetary
  microlensing with ELTs
Microlensing offers a unique opportunity to probe exoplanets that are
temperate and beyond the snow line, as small as Jovian satellites, at
extragalactic distance, and even free floating exoplanets, regimes where the
sensitivity of other methods drops dramatically. This is because microlensing
does not depend on the brightness of the planetary host star. The microlensing
method thus provides great leverage in studying the exoplanets beyond the snow
line, posing tests to the core accretion mechanism, especially on the run-away
phase of gas accretion to form giant planets. Here we propose to robustly and
routinely measure the masses of exoplanets beyond 1 AU from their host stars
with the microlensing method; our experiment relies on directly imaging and
resolving the host star (namely the lens) from the background source of the
microlensing events, which requires the high spatial resolution delivered by
the ELTs. A direct result from this project will be planet occurrence rate
beyond the snow line, which will enable us to discern different planet
formation mechanisms.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04648v1
Determining the Equation of State of Cold, Dense Matter with X-ray
  Observations of Neutron Stars
The unknown state of matter at ultra-high density, large proton/neutron
number asymmetry, and low temperature is a major long-standing problem in
modern physics. Neutron stars provide the only known setting in the Universe
where matter in this regime can stably exist. Valuable information about the
interior structure of neutron stars can be extracted via sensitive observations
of their exteriors. There are several complementary techniques that require
different combinations of high time resolution, superb spectral resolution, and
high spatial resolution. In the upcoming decade and beyond, measurements of the
masses and radii of an ensemble of neutron stars using these techniques, based
on data from multiple proposed next-generation X-ray telescopes, can produce
definitive empirical constraints on the allowed dense matter equation of state.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04660v1
High Angular Resolution Astrophysics: Resolving Stellar Surface Features
We are now in an era where we can image details on the surfaces of stars.
When resolving stellar surfaces, we see that every surface is uniquely
complicated. Each imaged star provides insight into not only the stellar
surface structures, but also the stellar interiors suggesting constraints on
evolution and dynamo models. As more resources become operational in the coming
years, imaging stellar surfaces should become commonplace for revealing the
true nature of stars. Here, we discuss the main types of stars for which
imaging surface features is currently useful and what improved observing
techniques would provide for imaging stellar surface features.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04700v1
Probing the origin of our Universe through cosmic microwave background
  constraints on gravitational waves
The next generation of instruments designed to measure the polarization of
the cosmic microwave background (CMB) will provide a historic opportunity to
open the gravitational wave window to the primordial Universe. Through high
sensitivity searches for primordial gravitational waves, and tighter limits on
the energy released in processes like phase transitions, the CMB polarization
data of the next decade has the potential to transform our understanding of the
laws of physics underlying the formation of the Universe.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05107v1
Star Formation in Different Environments: The Initial Mass Function
The stellar initial mass function (IMF) is a fundamental property of star
formation, offering key insight into the physics driving the process as well as
informing our understanding of stellar populations, their by-products, and
their impact on the surrounding medium. While the IMF appears to be fairly
uniform in the Milky Way disk, it is not yet known how the IMF might behave
across a wide range of environments, such as those with extreme gas
temperatures and densities, high pressures, and low metallicities. We discuss
new opportunities for measuring the IMF in such environments in the coming
decade with JWST, WFIRST, and thirty-meter class telescopes. For the first
time, we will be able to measure the high-mass slope and peak of the IMF via
direct star counts for massive star clusters across the Milky Way and Local
Group, providing stringent constraints for star formation theory and laying the
groundwork for understanding distant and unresolved stellar systems.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05140v1
Cosmological Probes of Dark Matter Interactions: The Next Decade
Cosmological observations offer unique and robust avenues for probing the
fundamental nature of dark matter particles-they broadly test a range of
compelling theoretical scenarios, often surpassing or complementing the reach
of terrestrial and other experiments. We discuss observational and theoretical
advancements that will play a pivotal role in realizing a strong program of
cosmological searches for the identity of dark matter in the coming decade.
Specifically, we focus on measurements of the cosmic-microwave-background
anisotropy and spectral distortions, and tracers of structure (such as the
Lyman-$\alpha$ forest, galaxies, and the cosmological 21-cm signal).

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05656v1
Direct Acceleration: Cosmic and Exoplanet Synergies
Direct measurement of acceleration is a key scientific goal for both
cosmology and exoplanets. For cosmology, the concept of redshift drift (more
than 60 years old by the 2020s) could directly establish the
Friedmann-Lema{\^\i}tre-Robertson-Walker model. It would increase the dark
energy figure of merit by a factor of 3 beyond Stage 4 experiments, in
combination with cosmic microwave background measurements. For exoplanets, the
same technology required provides unprecedented radial velocity accuracy,
enabling detection of Earth mass planets in the habitable zone. Other science
cases include mapping the Milky Way gravitational potential and testing its
dark matter distribution.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05718v1
EUV influences on exoplanet atmospheric stability and evolution
The planetary effective surface temperature alone is insufficient to
characterize exoplanet atmospheres and their stability or evolution.
Considering the star-planet system as a whole is necessary, and a critical
component of the system is the photoionizing stellar extreme ultraviolet
emission (EUV; 100-912 {\AA}). EUV photons drive atmospheric mass loss through
thermal and nonthermal processes, and an accurate accounting of the EUV energy
deposition in a planet's energy budget is essential, especially for terrestrial
habitable zone planets and close-in gaseous planets. Direct EUV observations of
exoplanet host stars would require a new, dedicated observatory. Archival
observations from the $\textit{EUVE}$ satellite, models, and theory alone are
insufficient to accurately characterize EUV spectra of the majority of
exoplanet host stars, especially for low-mass stars.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05834v2
Ultraviolet Spectropolarimetry as a Tool for Understanding the Diversity
  of Exoplanetary Atmospheres
The polarization state of starlight reflected by a planetary atmosphere
uniquely reveals coverage, particle size, and composition of aerosols as well
as changing cloud patterns. It is not possible to obtain a comparable level of
detailed from flux-only observations. Furthermore, polarization observations
can probe the atmosphere of planets independently of the orbital geometry
(i.e., transiting and non-transiting planets). We show that a high-resolution
spectropolarimeter with a broad wavelength coverage, particularly if attached
to a large space telescope, would enable simultaneous study of the polarimetric
exoplanet properties of the continuum and to look for and characterize the
polarimetric signal due to scattering from single molecules.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.06238v1
Mapping Galaxy Clusters in the Distant Universe
We present the science case for mapping several thousand galaxy
(proto)clusters at z=1-10 with a large aperture single dish sub-mm facility,
producing a high-redshift counterpart to local large surveys of rich clusters
like the well-studied Abell catalogue. Principal goals of a large survey of
distant clusters are the evolution of galaxy clusters over cosmic time and the
impact of environment on the evolution and formation of galaxies. To make a big
leap forward in this emerging research field, the community would benefit from
a large-format, wide-band, direct-detection spectrometer (e.g., based on MKID
technology), covering a wide field of ~1 square degree and a frequency coverage
from 70 to 700 GHz.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.06509v1
Stellar physics with high-resolution UV spectropolarimetry
Current burning issues in stellar physics, for both hot and cool stars,
concern their magnetism. In hot stars, stable magnetic fields of fossil origin
impact their stellar structure and circumstellar environment, with a likely
major role in stellar evolution. However, this role is complex and thus poorly
understood as of today. It needs to be quantified with high-resolution UV
spectropolarimetric measurements. In cool stars, UV spectropolarimetry would
provide access to the structure and magnetic field of the very dynamic upper
stellar atmosphere, providing key data for new progress to be made on the role
of magnetic fields in heating the upper atmospheres, launching stellar winds,
and more generally in the interaction of cool stars with their environment
(circumstellar disk, planets) along their whole evolution.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.06526v2
Radio Pulsar Populations
Our understanding of the neutron star population is informed to a great
degree by large-scale surveys that have been carried out by radio facilities
during the past fifty years. We summarize some of the recent breakthroughs in
our understanding of the radio pulsar population and look ahead to future
yields from upcoming experiments planned for the next decade. By the end of the
2020s, we anticipate a much more complete census of the Galactic population and
being able to probe the populations of radio-emitting neutron stars more
effectively in external galaxies. Among the anticipated discoveries are
pulsar--black hole binary systems that will provide further tests of
strong-field gravity, as well as large numbers of millisecond pulsars that are
crucial to enhancing the sensitivity of timing arrays for low-frequency
gravitational waves.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.06535v1
Fast Radio Burst Tomography of the Unseen Universe
The discovery of Fast Radio Bursts (FRBs) at cosmological distances has
opened a powerful window on otherwise unseen matter in the Universe. In the
2020s, observations of $>10^{4}$ FRBs will assess the baryon contents and
physical conditions in the hot/diffuse circumgalactic, intracluster, and
intergalactic medium, and test extant compact-object dark matter models.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.06550v1
Searching for Technosignatures: Implications of Detection and
  Non-Detection
The search for technosignatures from the Galaxy or the nearby universe raises
two main questions: What are the possible characteristics of technosignatures?
and How can future searches be optimized to enhance the probability of
detection? Addressing these questions requires an interdisciplinary approach,
combining i) the study of Anthropocene as a planetary transition and thus a
possible proxy also for other planets, ii) the active search for
technosignatures in the radio/optical and infrared range, and iii) the
statistical modelling of technosignatures and Bayesian inference methods to
learn from both detection and non-detection. This strategy (combining modelling
and observations) offers the best scientific opportunity in the next decade to
discover the possible existence of technological civilizations beyond Earth.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.06629v1
Towards a high accuracy measurement of the local black hole occupation
  fraction in low mass galaxies
This document illustrates the feasibility of a few per cent level measurement
of the local black hole occupation fraction in low mass galaxies through
wide-field, high angular resolution X-ray imaging observations of local volume
galaxies. The occupation fraction, particularly at the low end of the galaxy
luminosity function, is a key benchmark for any model which aims to reproduce
the formation and growth of super-massive black holes and their host galaxies.
Our proposed measurement will complement orthogonal efforts that are planned in
X-rays at high red-shifts, as well as in the local Universe with ground-based
facilities.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.06691v1
Astro2020 White Paper: The L/T Transition
The L/T transition is an important evolutionary phase in brown dwarf
atmospheres, providing us with a unique opportunity to explore the effects of
clouds, convection, winds, gravity and metallicity across a very narrow
temperature range. Understanding these physical processes is critical for
understanding ultracool atmospheres. In the next decade, we will answer three
key questions regarding L/T transition atmospheres: 1. What is the physical
mechanism behind the L/T transition? 2. What is the spatial extent of
atmospheric structures at the L/T transition? 3. How do gravity and metallicity
affect the L/T transition? The theory and methods developed for brown dwarfs
will be used in the 2030s and beyond for solar-system age giant exoplanets and
eventually habitable zone earth analogues. Developing these techniques now are
crucial.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.06769v1
Hunting for ancient brown dwarfs: the developing field of brown dwarfs
  in globular clusters
The detection of brown dwarfs in globular star clusters will allow us to
break the degeneracies in age, mass and composition that affect our current
models, and therefore to constrain the physics of their atmospheres and
interiors. Furthermore, detecting brown dwarfs will help us constrain the
properties of the clusters themselves, as they carry information about the
clusters' age and dynamics. Great advancements in this field are to be expected
in the next ten years, thanks to the extraordinary sensitivity in the infrared
of upcoming telescopes like JWST and the ELTs.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.07152v1
Characterizing Transiting Exoplanets with JWST Guaranteed Time and ERS
  Observations
We highlight how guaranteed time observations (GTOs) and early release
science (ERS) will advance understanding of exoplanet atmospheres and provide a
glimpse into what transiting exoplanet science will be done with JWST during
its first year of operations. These observations of 27 transiting planets will
deliver significant insights into the compositions, chemistry, clouds, and
thermal profiles of warm-to-hot gas-dominated planets well beyond what we have
learned from HST, Spitzer, and other observatories to date. These data and
insights will in turn inform our understanding of planet formation, atmospheric
transport and climate, and relationships between various properties. Some
insight will likely be gained into rocky planet atmospheres as well. JWST will
be the most important mission for characterizing exoplanet atmospheres in the
2020s, and this should be considered in assessing exoplanet science for the
2020s and 2030s and future facilities.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.08128v1
The Dynamic Infrared Sky
Opening up the dynamic infrared sky for systematic time-domain exploration
would yield many scientific advances. Multi-messenger pursuits such as
localizing gravitational waves from neutron star mergers and quantifying the
nucleosynthetic yields require the infrared. Another multi-messenger endeavor
that needs infrared surveyors is the study of the much-awaited supernova in our
own Milky Way. Understanding shocks in novae, true rates of supernovae and
stellar mergers are some other examples of stellar evolution and high energy
physics wherein the answers are buried in the infrared. We discuss some of the
challenges in the infrared and pathfinders to overcome them. We conclude with
recommendations on both infrared discovery engines and infrared follow-up
machines that would enable this field to flourish in the next decade.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.08144v2
Where are the Intermediate Mass Black Holes?
Observational evidence has been mounting for the existence of intermediate
mass black holes (IMBHs, 10^2-10^5 Msun), but observing them at all, much less
constraining their masses, is very challenging. In one theorized formation
channel, IMBHs are the seeds for supermassive black holes in the early
universe. As a result, IMBHs are predicted to exist in the local universe in
dwarf galaxies, as well as wandering in more massive galaxy halos. However,
these environments are not conducive to the accretion events or dynamical
signatures that allow us to detect IMBHs. The Laser Interferometer Space
Antenna (LISA) will demystify IMBHs by detecting the mergers of these objects
out to extremely high redshifts, while measuring their masses with extremely
high precision. These observations of merging IMBHs will allow us to constrain
the formation mechanism and subsequent evolution of massive black holes, from
the 'dark ages' to the present day, and reveal the role that IMBHs play in
hierarchical galaxy evolution.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.09220v1
Deeper, Wider, Sharper: Next-Generation Ground-Based Gravitational-Wave
  Observations of Binary Black Holes
Next-generation observations will revolutionize our understanding of binary
black holes and will detect new sources, such as intermediate-mass black holes.
Primary science goals include: Discover binary black holes throughout the
observable Universe; Reveal the fundamental properties of black holes; Uncover
the seeds of supermassive black holes.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.09224v1
The Yet-Unobserved Multi-Messenger Gravitational-Wave Universe
Observations with next-generation ground-based detectors further enhanced
with multi-messenger (electromagnetic and neutrino) detections will allow us to
probe new extreme astrophysics. Target sources included: core-collapse
supernovae, continuous emission from isolated or accreting neutron stars, and
bursts from magnetars and other pulsars.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.09301v1
Detecting Offset Active Galactic Nuclei
Gravitational wave (GW) and gravitational slingshot recoil kicks, which are
natural products of SMBH evolution in merging galaxies, can produce active
galactic "nuclei" that are offset from the centers of their host galaxies.
Detections of offset AGN would provide key constraints on SMBH binary mass and
spin evolution and on GW event rates. Although numerous offset AGN candidates
have been identified, none have been definitively confirmed. Multi-wavelength
observations with next-generation telescopes, including systematic large-area
surveys, will provide unprecedented opportunities to identify and confirm
candidate offset AGN from sub-parsec to kiloparsec scales. We highlight ways in
which these observations will open a new avenue for multi-messenger studies in
the dawn of low-frequency (~ nHz - mHz) GW astronomy.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.09356v1
Exploring Active Supermassive Black Holes at 100 Micro-arcsecond
  Resolution
Super-high spatial resolution observations in the infrared are now enabling
major advances in our understanding of supermassive black hole systems at the
centers of galaxies. Infrared interferometry, reaching resolutions of
milliarcseconds to sub-milliarcseconds, is drastically changing our view of the
central structure from a static to a very dynamic one by spatially resolving to
the pc-scale. We are also starting to measure the dynamical structure of fast
moving gas clouds around active supermassive black holes at a scale of less
than a light year. With further improvements on resolution and sensitivity, we
will be able to directly image the exact site of the black hole's feedback to
its host galaxy, and quantify the effect of such interaction processes.
Near-future high angular resolution studies will definitely advance our mass
determinations for these black holes, and we might even witness the existence
of binary black hole systems at the center of galaxies.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.09883v1
Scratches from the Past: Inflationary Archaeology through Features in
  the Power Spectrum of Primordial Fluctuations
Inflation may provide unique insight into the physics at the highest
available energy scales that cannot be replicated in any realistic terrestrial
experiment. Features in the primordial power spectrum are generically predicted
in a wide class of models of inflation and its alternatives, and are
observationally one of the most overlooked channels for finding evidence for
non-minimal inflationary models. Constraints from observations of the cosmic
microwave background cover the widest range of feature frequencies, but the
most sensitive constraints will come from future large-scale structure surveys
that can measure the largest number of linear and quasi-linear modes.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.10017v1
Ground-Based Radial Velocity as Critical Support for Future NASA
  Earth-Finding Missions
Future space-based direct imaging missions are poised to search for
biosignatures in the atmospheres of potentially habitable planets orbiting
nearby AFGKM stars. Although these missions could conduct a survey of
high-priority target stars to detect candidate Earth-like planets, conducting a
precursor radial velocity (RV) survey will benefit future direct imaging
missions in four ways. First, an RV survey capable of detecting signals as
small as 8 cm/s over timescales of a few years could discover potentially
habitable Earth-mass planets orbiting dozens of nearby GKM stars accessible to
space-based direct imaging. Second, RVs will improve scheduling efficiency by
reducing the required number of revisits for orbit determination, and revealing
when a planet of interest is most observable. Third, RV observations will
reveal the masses of gas and ice giants that could be mistaken for Earth-mass
planets, thereby reducing the time spent identifying false positives. Fourth,
mass measurements from RVs will provide the surface gravities necessary for
interpreting atmospheric spectra and potential biosignatures.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.11116v1
Multi-Messenger Astrophysics Opportunities with Stellar-Mass Binary
  Black Hole Mergers
The conventional view of stellar-mass binary black hole (sBBH) mergers is
that there should not be enough matter present to produce a detectable
electromagnetic transient. However, there ARE a number of mechanisms for
producing such a counterpart through accretion of matter from various reserves,
charged black holes, or interactions with magnetic or exotic fields. After
reviewing these mechanisms, we describe what we can learn from multi-messenger
observations of sBBH mergers in the areas of stellar evolution and compact
binary formation, cosmological measurements, searches for charged black holes,
and tests of general relativity and fundamental physics. We end with some
remarks about the need to support both observing capabilities and modeling in
the next decade and beyond.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1904.00052v1
Prospects for Pulsar Studies at MeV Energies
Enabled by the Fermi Large Area Telescope, we now know young and recycled
pulsars fill the gamma-ray sky, and we are beginning to understand their
emission mechanism and their distribution throughout the Galaxy. However, key
questions remain: Is there a large population of pulsars near the Galactic
center? Why do the most energetic pulsars shine so brightly in MeV gamma rays
but not always at GeV energies? What is the source and nature of the pair
plasma in pulsar magnetospheres, and what role does the polar cap accelerator
play? Addressing these questions calls for a sensitive, wide-field MeV
telescope, which can detect the population of MeV-peaked pulsars hinted at by
Fermi and hard X-ray telescopes and characterize their spectral shape and
polarization.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1904.00054v1
Comparing key compositional indicators in Jupiter with those in
  extra-solar giant planets
Spectroscopic transiting observations of the atmospheres of hot Jupiters
around other stars, first with Hubble Space Telescope and then Spitzer, opened
the door to compositional studies of exoplanets. The James Webb Space Telescope
will provide such a profound improvement in signal-to-noise ratio that it will
enable detailed analysis of molecular abundances, including but not limited to
determining abundances of all the major carbon- and oxygen-bearing species in
hot Jupiter atmospheres. This will allow determination of the carbon-to-oxygen
ratio, an essential number for planet formation models and a motivating goal of
the Juno mission currently around Jupiter

http://arxiv.org/abs/1904.00802v1
Extragalactic Proper Motions: Gravitational Waves and Cosmology
Extragalactic proper motions can reveal a variety of cosmological and local
phenomena over a range of angular scales. These include observer-induced proper
motions, such as the secular aberration drift caused by the solar acceleration
about the Galactic Center and secular extragalactic parallax resulting from our
motion with respect to the cosmic microwave background rest frame. Cosmological
effects include the isotropy of the Hubble expansion, transverse peculiar
velocities induced by large scale structure, the real-time evolution of the
baryon acoustic oscillation, and long-period gravitational waves that deflect
light rays, producing an apparent quadrupolar proper motion pattern on the sky.
We review these effects, their imprints on global correlated extragalactic
proper motions, their expected amplitudes, the current best measurements (if
any), and predictions for Gaia. Finally, we describe key ground- and
space-based observational requirements to measure or constrain these proper
motion signals down to amplitudes of $\sim$0.1 $\mu$as yr$^{-1}$, or $\sim$0.7%
of $H_0$.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1904.00803v1
A Formaldehyde Deep Field
Formaldehyde (H2CO) is often observed at centimeter wavelengths as an
absorption line against the cosmic microwave background (CMB). This is possible
when energy level populations are cooled to the point where line excitation
temperatures fall below the local CMB temperature. Collisions with molecular
hydrogen "pump" this anti-maser excitation, and the cm line ratios of H2CO
provide a measurement of the local H2 density. H2CO absorption of CMB light
provides all of the benefits of absorption lines (no distance dimming) but none
of the drawbacks: the CMB provides uniform illumination of all molecular gas in
galaxies (no pencil beam sampling), and all galaxies lie in front of the CMB -
no fortuitous alignments with background light sources are needed. A
formaldehyde deep field (FDF) would therefore provide a blind, mass-limited
survey of molecular gas across the history of star formation and galaxy
evolution. Moreover, the combination of column density and number density
measurements may provide geometric distances in large galaxy samples and at
higher redshifts than can be done using the Sunyaev Zel'dovich effect in galaxy
clusters. We present a fiducial FDF that would span redshifts z=0-7 and provide
H2CO line ratios to measure n(H2) for z > 0.45.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1904.03187v1
Gravitational wave astronomy with LIGO and similar detectors in the next
  decade
We describe the plans for gravitational-wave observations and astrophysics
that will be carried out by the LIGO Scientific Collaboration (LSC) in the next
decade using data from the LIGO Observatories in the US, and sister facilities
abroad in Europe, Japan and India. We provide an overview of gravitational wave
signal types that we are targeting, and the role of gravitational waves in
time-domain multi-messenger astronomy. We briefly summarize what we can infer
from the properties of detected signals, including astrophysical event rates
and populations, tests of gravitational-wave properties, highly-dynamical and
strong-field tests of General Relativity, probing matter under extreme
conditions in neutron stars, and making cosmological measurements with
gravitational-wave sources.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1904.06398v1
Emission Line Mapping of the Circumgalactic Medium of Nearby Galaxies
The circumgalactic medium (CGM), which harbors > 50% of all the baryons in a
galaxy, is both the reservoir of gas for subsequent star formation and the
depository of chemically processed gas, energy, and angular momentum from
feedback. As such, the CGM obviously plays a critical role in galaxy evolution.
We discuss the opportunity to image this component using recombination line
emission, beginning with the early results coming from recent statistical
detection of this emission to the final goal of realizing spectral-line images
of the CGM in individual nearby galaxies. Such work will happen in the next
decade and provide new insights on the galactic baryon cycle.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.03582v1
A Summary of Multimessenger Science with Neutron Star Mergers
Neutron star mergers, referring to both binary neutron star and neutron star
black hole mergers, are the canonical multimessenger events. They have been
detected across the electromagnetic spectrum, have recently been detected in
gravitational waves, and are likely to produce neutrinos over several decades
in energy. The non-thermal prompt and afterglow emission of short gamma-ray
bursts and the quasi-thermal emission from the radioactively powered kilonovae
provide distinct insights into the physics of neutron star mergers. When
combined with direct information on coalescence from gravitational waves and
neutrinos these sources may become the best understood astrophysical
transients. Multimessenger observations of these cataclysmic events will
determine sources of gravitational waves and astrophysical neutrinos, enable
precision cosmology, and unique tests of fundamental physics, the origin of
heavy elements, the behavior of relativistic jets, and the equation of state of
supranuclear matter. In this white paper we present a summary of the science
discoveries possible with multimessenger observations of neutron star mergers
and provide recommendations to enable them in the new era of time-domain,
multimessenger astronomy.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04831v1
The Magellanic Stream as a Probe of Astrophysics
Extending for over 200 degrees across the sky, the Magellanic Stream together
with its Leading Arm is the most spectacular example of a gaseous stream in the
local Universe. The Stream is an interwoven tail of filaments trailing the
Magellanic Clouds as they orbit the Milky Way. Thought to be created by tidal
forces, ram pressure, and halo interactions, the Stream is a benchmark for
dynamical models of the Magellanic System, a case study for gas accretion and
dwarf-galaxy accretion onto galaxies, a probe of the outer halo, and the bearer
of more gas mass than all other Galactic high velocity clouds combined. If it
survives to reach the Galactic disk, it may maintain or even elevate the
Galactic star-formation rate. In this white paper, we emphasize the Stream's
importance for many areas of Galactic astronomy, summarize key unanswered
questions, and identify future observations and simulations needed to resolve
them. We stress the importance of ultraviolet, optical, and radio spectroscopy,
and the need for computational models that capture full particle and radiation
treatments within an MHD environment.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04980v1
Tracing the formation history of galaxy clusters into the epoch of
  reionization
The large-scale overdensities of galaxies at z~2-7 known as protoclusters are
believed to be the sites of cluster formation, and deep, wide survey projects
such as the Large Synoptic Survey Telescope (LSST) and the Wide Field Infrared
Survey Telescope (WFIRST) will deliver significant numbers of these interesting
structures. Spectroscopic confirmation and interpretation of these targets,
however, is still challenging, and will require wide-field multi-plexed
spectroscopy on >20 m-class telescopes in the optical and near-infrared. In the
coming decade, detailed studies of protoclusters will enable us, for the first
time, to systematically connect these cluster progenitors in the early universe
to their virialized counterparts at lower redshifts. This will allow us to
address observationally the formation of brightest cluster galaxies and other
cluster galaxy populations, the buildup of the intra-cluster light, the
chemical enrichment history of the intra-cluster medium, and the formation and
triggering of supermassive black holes in dense environments, all of which are
currently almost exclusively approached either through the fossil record in
clusters or through numerical simulations. Furthermore, at the highest
redshifts (z~5-10), these large extended overdensities of star-forming galaxies
are believed to have played an important role in the reionization of the
universe, which needs to be tested by upcoming experiments. Theory and recent
simulations also suggest important links between these overdensities and the
formation of supermassive black holes, but observational evidence is still
lacking. In this white paper we review our current understanding of this
important phase of galaxy cluster history that will be explored by the next
generation of large aperture ground-based telescopes GMT and TMT.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05241v1
Probing the Physical Properties of the Corona in Accreting Black Holes
The corona is a key component of most luminous accreting black holes,
carrying 5 - 30 % of the power and in non-jetted Active Galactic Nuclei (AGN),
creating all the X-ray emission above $\simeq 1-2$ keV. Its emission
illuminates the inner accretion disc, creating the atomic line-rich reflection
spectrum used to diagnose and map the accretion flow and measure black hole
spin. The corona is likely powered magnetically by the strong differential
rotation of the accretion disc and it may be intimately related to relativistic
jets. Recent work shows that many black hole coronae may be dominated by
electron-positron pairs produced by photon-photon collisions in the compact
coronal environment. Despite the corona being an integral component of AGN and
black hole binary systems, much is still unknown about the nature of the
corona, such as its geometry, location, and the physical mechanisms powering
the emission. In this white paper we explore our current understanding of
coronal properties, such as its temperature, obtained from measurements with
existing hard X-ray telescopes such as NuSTAR, and discuss important questions
to be addressed in the coming decade surrounding the nature of the corona. Hard
X-ray observations will continue to dispel the mystery of coronae and open up
this part of the quasar engine to full understanding.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05699v1
Prospects for the detection of synchrotron halos around middle-age
  pulsars
The origin of cosmic-ray positrons detected with an energy above 10 GeV is
one of the most intriguing mysteries in Astroparticle Physics. Different
interpretations have been invoked to solve this puzzle such as pulsar wind
nebulae (PWNe), supernovae remnants or interactions of dark matter particles.
The HAWC and Milagro experiments have measured an extended emission of photons
above 10 TeV in the direction of Geminga and Monogem PWNe which can be
interpreted by photons emitted through inverse Compton scattering by positrons
and electrons accelerated by these sources. These HAWC and Milagro detections
are extremely important to estimate the PWN contribution to the positron
excess. Positrons and electrons emitted by PWNe and injected in the
interstellar medium can produce photons with an energy between radio and X-ray
through synchrotron radiation with the Galactic magnetic field. In this white
paper we show that Astrophysics Probe mission concepts, such as AMEGO (the
All-sky Medium Energy Gamma-ray Observatory) and AdEPT (The Advanced Energetic
Pair Telescope), are suitable to detect the synchrotron halos from Monogem and
Geminga PWNe and we will report the list of the most promising PWNe that AMEGO
could be able to detect.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.06356v1
Physics of cosmic plasmas from high angular resolution X-ray imaging of
  galaxy clusters
Galaxy clusters are massive dark matter-dominated systems filled with X-ray
emitting, optically thin plasma. Their large size and relative simplicity (at
least as astrophysical objects go) make them a unique laboratory to measure
some of the interesting plasma properties that are inaccessible by other means
but fundamentally important for understanding and modeling many astrophysical
phenomena -- from solar flares to black hole accretion to galaxy formation and
the emergence of the cosmological Large Scale Structure. While every cluster
astrophysicist is eagerly anticipating the direct gas velocity measurements
from the forthcoming microcalorimeters onboard XRISM, Athena and future
missions such as Lynx, a number of those plasma properties can best be probed
by high-resolution X-ray imaging of galaxy clusters. Chandra has obtained some
trailblazing results, but only grazed the surface of such studies. In this
white paper, we discuss why we need arcsecond-resolution, high collecting area,
low relative background X-ray imagers (with modest spectral resolution), such
as the proposed AXIS and the imaging detector of Lynx.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.06760v1
Testing general relativity with accretion onto compact objects
The X-ray emission of neutron stars and black holes presents a rich
phenomenology that can lead us to a better understanding of their nature and to
address more general physics questions: Does general relativity apply in the
strong gravity regime? Is spacetime around black holes described by the Kerr
metric? This white paper considers how we can investigate these questions by
studying reverberation mapping and quasi-periodic oscillations in accreting
systems with a combination of high-spectral and high-timing resolution. In the
near future, we will be able to study compact objects in the X-rays in a new
way: advancements in transition-edge sensors (TES) technology will allow for
electron-volt-resolution spectroscopy combined with nanoseconds-precision
timing.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.07623v1
Detecting the Birth of Supermassive Black Holes Formed from Heavy Seeds
In this white paper we explore the capabilities required to identify and
study supermassive black holes formed from heavy seeds ($\mathrm{M_{\bullet}}
\sim 10^4 - 10^6 \, \mathrm{M_{\odot}}$) in the early Universe. To obtain an
unequivocal detection of heavy seeds we need to probe mass scales of $\sim
10^{5-6} \, \mathrm{M_{\odot}}$ at redshift $z \gtrsim 10$. From this
theoretical perspective, we review the observational requirements and how they
compare with planned/proposed instruments, in the infrared, X-ray and
gravitational waves realms. In conclusion, detecting heavy black hole seeds at
$z \gtrsim 10$ in the next decade will be challenging but, according to current
theoretical models, feasible with upcoming/proposed facilities. Their detection
will be fundamental to understand the early history of the Universe, as well as
its evolution until now. Shedding light on the dawn of black holes will
certainly be one of the key tasks that the astronomical community will focus on
in the next decade.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.07828v1
Big Science with a nUV-MidIR Rapid-Response 1.3m telescope at L2
Time-domain Astrophysics (TDA), a foundation of Astronomy, has become a major
part of current and projected (2020s) astrophysics. While much has been derived
from temporal measures of flux and color, the real physics comes from
spectroscopy. With LSST coming on line in 2022, with TDA as one of its original
drivers, the deluge of Transients and new types of variables will be truly
astronomical. With multi-wavelength targeted EM surveys and multi-messenger
(e.g. LIGO-international and advanced ICECUBE), and the possibility of full-sky
and full-time X-ray imagers, the discovery of new Transients and Variables will
flood telescopes on the ground and in space, and this just for multi-band
imaging without spectroscopy. In this White Paper we briefly summarize several
long-standing major science objectives that can be realized with TDA imaging
and spectroscopy (near UV to mid IR) from space. We provide a brief description
of how these can be achieved with the Time-domain Spectroscopic Observatory
(TSO), a Probe-Class mission concept that ELTs on the ground and Flagship
missions in space can not achieve on their own.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.08180v1
Measurement of the Free-Floating Planet Mass Function with Simultaneous
  Euclid and WFIRST Microlensing Parallax Observations
Free-floating planets are the remnants of violent dynamical rearrangements of
planetary systems. It is possible that even our own solar system ejected a
large planet early in its evolution. WFIRST will have the ability to detect
free-floating planets over a wide range of masses, but it will not be able to
directly measure their masses. Microlensing parallax observations can be used
to measure the masses of isolated objects, including free-floating planets, by
observing their microlensing events from two locations. The intra-L2 separation
between WFIRST and Euclid is large enough to enable microlensing parallax
measurements, especially given the exquisite photometric precision that both
spacecraft are capable of over wide fields. In this white paper we describe how
a modest investment of observing time could yield hundreds of parallax
measurements for WFIRST's bound and free-floating planets. We also describe how
a short observing campaign of precursor observations by Euclid can improve
WFIRST's bound planet and host star mass measurements.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1904.04319v1
Understanding Galactic Star Formation with Next Generation X-ray
  Spectroscopy and Imaging
This white paper is motivated by open questions in star formation, which can
be uniquely addressed by high resolution X-ray imaging and require an X-ray
observatory with large collecting area along good spectral resolution. A
complete census of star-forming regions in X-rays, combined with well matched
infrared (IR) data, will advance our understanding of disk survival times and
dissipation mechanisms. In addition, we will be able to directly observe the
effects of X-ray irradiation on circumstellar grain growth to compare with
grain evolution models in both high- and low-UV environments. X-rays are native
to stars at all phases of star formation and affect planet-forming disks
especially through flares. Moreover, X-rays trace magnetic fields which weave
through the flares, providing a unique, non-gravitational feedback mechanism
between disk and star. Finally, the bright X-ray emission emanating from hot
plasma associated with massive stars can have large scale impacts on the
topology of star-forming regions and their interface with the interstellar
medium (ISM).

http://arxiv.org/abs/1904.08797v1
Debris Disk Composition: A Diagnostic Tool for Planet Formation and
  Migration
Debris disks are exoplanetary systems containing planets, minor bodies (such
as asteroids and comets) and debris dust. Unseen planets are presumed to
perturb the minor bodies into crossing orbits, generating small dust grains
that are detected via remote sensing. Debris disks have been discovered around
main sequence stars of a variety of ages (from 10 Myr to several Gyr) and
stellar spectral types (from early A-type to M-type stars). As a result, they
serve as excellent laboratories for understanding whether the architecture and
the evolution of our Solar System is common or rare. This white paper addresses
two outstanding questions in debris disk science: (1) Are debris disk minor
bodies similar to asteroids and comets in our Solar System? (2) Do planets
separate circumstellar material into distinct reservoirs and/or mix material
during planet migration? We anticipate that SOFIA/HIRMES, JWST, and WFIRST/CGI
will greatly improve our understanding of debris disk composition, enabling the
astronomical community to answer these questions. However, we note that despite
their observational power, these facilities will not provide large numbers of
detections or detailed characterization of cold ices and silicates in the Trans
Neptunian zone. Origins Space Telescope is needed to revolutionize our
understanding of the bulk composition and mixing in exoplanetary systems.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04461v1
Opportunities for Multimessenger Astronomy in the 2020s
Electromagnetic observations of the sky have been the basis for our study of
the Universe for millennia, cosmic ray studies are now entering their second
century, the first neutrinos from an astrophysical source were identified three
decades ago, and gravitational waves were directly detected only four years
ago. Detections of these messengers are now common. Astrophysics will undergo a
revolution in the 2020s as multimessenger detections become routine. The 8th
Astro2020 Thematic Area is Multimessenger Astronomy and Astrophysics, which
includes the identification of the sources of gravitational waves,
astrophysical and cosmogenic neutrinos, cosmic rays, and gamma-rays, and the
coordinated multimessenger and multiwavelength follow-ups. Identifying and
characterizing multimessenger sources enables science throughout and beyond
astrophysics. Success in the multimessenger era requires: (i) sensitive
coverage of the non-electromagnetic messengers, (ii) full coverage of the
electromagnetic spectrum, with either fast-response observations or broad and
deep high-cadence surveys, and (iii) improved collaboration, communication, and
notification platforms.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04509v1
Astro2020: Empirically Constraining Galaxy Evolution
Over the past decade, empirical constraints on the galaxy-dark matter halo
connection have significantly advanced our understanding of galaxy evolution.
Past techniques have focused on connections between halo properties and galaxy
stellar mass and/or star formation rates. Empirical techniques in the next
decade will link halo assembly histories with galaxies' circumgalactic media,
supermassive black holes, morphologies, kinematics, sizes, colors,
metallicities, and transient rates. Uncovering these links will resolve many
critical uncertainties in galaxy formation and will enable much higher-fidelity
mock catalogs essential for interpreting observations. Achieving these results
will require broader and deeper spectroscopic coverage of galaxies and their
circumgalactic media; survey teams will also need to meet several criteria
(cross-comparisons, public access, and covariance matrices) to facilitate
combining data across different surveys. Acting on these recommendations will
continue enabling dramatic progress in both empirical modeling and galaxy
evolution for the next decade.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.06152v1
Constraining Stellar Photospheres as an Essential Step for Transmission
  Spectroscopy of Small Exoplanets
Transmission spectra probe the atmospheres of transiting exoplanets, but
these observations are also subject to signals introduced by magnetic active
regions on host stars. Here we outline scientific opportunities in the next
decade for providing useful constraints on stellar photospheres and inform
interpretations of transmission spectra of the smallest ($R<4\,R_{\odot}$)
exoplanets. We identify and discuss four primary opportunities: (1) refining
stellar magnetic active region properties through exoplanet crossing events;
(2) spectral decomposition of active exoplanet host stars; (3) joint retrievals
of stellar photospheric and planetary atmospheric properties with studies of
transmission spectra; and (4) continued visual transmission spectroscopy
studies to complement longer-wavelength studies from $\textit{JWST}$. We make
five recommendations to the Astro2020 Decadal Survey Committee: (1) identify
the transit light source (TLS) effect as a challenge to precise exoplanet
transmission spectroscopy and an opportunity ripe for scientific advancement in
the coming decade; (2) include characterization of host star photospheric
heterogeneity as part of a comprehensive research strategy for studying
transiting exoplanets; (3) support the construction of ground-based extremely
large telescopes (ELTs); (4) support multi-disciplinary research teams that
bring together the heliophysics, stellar physics, and exoplanet communities to
further exploit transiting exoplanets as spatial probes of stellar
photospheres; and (5) support visual transmission spectroscopy efforts as
complements to longer-wavelength observational campaigns with $\textit{JWST}$.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.06867v1
Astro2020 science white paper: The gravitational wave view of massive
  black holes
Coalescing, massive black-hole (MBH) binaries are the most powerful sources
of gravitational waves (GWs) in the Universe, which makes MBH science a prime
focus for ongoing and upcoming GW observatories. The Laser Interferometer Space
Antenna (LISA) -- a gigameter scale space-based GW observatory -- will grant us
access to an immense cosmological volume, revealing MBHs merging when the first
cosmic structures assembled in the Dark Ages. LISA will unveil the yet unknown
origin of the first quasars, and detect the teeming population of MBHs of $10^4
- 10^7$ solar masses. forming within protogalactic halos. The Pulsar Timing
Array, a galactic-scale GW survey, can access the largest MBHs the Universe,
detecting the cosmic GW foreground from inspiraling MBH binaries of about 10^9
solar masses. LISA can measure MBH spins and masses with precision far
exceeding that from electromagnetic (EM) probes, and together, both GW
observatories will provide the first full census of binary MBHs, and their
orbital dynamics, across cosmic time. Detecting the loud gravitational signal
of these MBH binaries will also trigger alerts for EM counterpart searches,
from decades (PTAs) to hours (LISA) prior to the final merger. By witnessing
both the GW and EM signals of MBH mergers, precious information will be
gathered about the rich and complex environment in the aftermath of a galaxy
collision. The unique GW characterization of MBHs will shed light on the deep
link between MBHs of $10^4-10^{10}$ solar masses and the grand design of galaxy
assembly, as well as on the complex dynamics that drive MBHs to coalescence.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.09523v1
Detecting Earth-like Biosignatures on Rocky Exoplanets around Nearby
  Stars with Ground-based Extremely Large Telescopes
As we begin to discover rocky planets in the habitable zone of nearby stars
with missions like TESS and CHEOPS, we will need quick advancements on
instrumentation and observational techniques that will enable us to answer key
science questions, such as What are the atmospheric characteristics of
habitable zone rocky planets? How common are Earth-like biosignatures in rocky
planets?} How similar or dissimilar are those planets to Earth? Over the next
decade we expect to have discovered several Earth-analog candidates, but we
will not have the tools to study the atmospheres of all of them in detail.
Ground-based ELTs can identify biosignatures in the spectra of these candidate
exo-Earths and understand how the planets' atmospheres compare to the Earth at
different epochs. Transit spectroscopy, high-resolution spectroscopy, and
reflected-light direct imaging on ELTs can identify multiple biosignatures for
habitable zone, rocky planets around M stars at optical to near-infrared
wavelengths. Thermal infrared direct imaging can detect habitable zone, rocky
planets around AFGK stars, identifying ozone and motivating reflected-light
follow-up observations with NASA missions like HabEx/LUVOIR. Therefore, we
recommend that the Astro2020 Decadal Survey Committee support: (1) the search
for Earth-like biosignatures on rocky planets around nearby stars as a key
science case; (2) the construction over the next decade of ground-based
Extremely Large Telecopes (ELTs), which will provide the large aperture and
spatial resolution necessary to start revealing the atmospheres of
Earth-analogues around nearby stars; (3) the development of instrumentation
that optimizes the detection of biosignatures; and (4) the generation of
accurate line lists for potential biosignature gases, which are needed as model
templates to detect those molecules.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.12016v1
Dark Energy and Modified Gravity
Despite two decades of tremendous experimental and theoretical progress, the
riddle of the accelerated expansion of the Universe remains to be solved. On
the experimental side, our understanding of the possibilities and limitations
of the major dark energy probes has evolved; here we summarize the major probes
and their crucial challenges. On the theoretical side, the taxonomy of
explanations for the accelerated expansion rate is better understood, providing
clear guidance to the relevant observables. We argue that: i) improving
statistical precision and systematic control by taking more data, supporting
research efforts to address crucial challenges for each probe, using
complementary methods, and relying on cross-correlations is well motivated; ii)
blinding of analyses is difficult but ever more important; iii) studies of dark
energy and modified gravity are related; and iv) it is crucial that R&D for a
vibrant dark energy program in the 2030s be started now by supporting studies
and technical R&D that will allow embryonic proposals to mature. Understanding
dark energy, arguably the biggest unsolved mystery in both fundamental particle
physics and cosmology, will remain one of the focal points of cosmology in the
forthcoming decade.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1904.06160v1
Opportunities in Time-Domain Extragalactic Astrophysics with the NASA
  Near-Earth Object Camera (NEOCam)
This White Pape motivates the time domain extragalactic science case for the
NASA Near-Earth Object Camera (NEOCam). NEOCam is a NASA Planetary mission
whose goal is to discover and characterize asteroids and comets, to assess the
hazard to Earth from near-Earth objects, and to study the origin, evolution,
and fate of asteroids and comets. NEOCam will, however, cover 68% of the
extragalactic sky and as the NEOWISE-R mission has recently proved, infrared
information is now vital for identifying and characterizing the $\gtrsim$10
million IR bright Active Galactic Nuclei, as well as using the IR light curve
to provide deep insights into accretion disk astrophysics. NEOWISE-R data has
also been used to discover Super-luminous Supernovae, dust echos in Tidal
Disruption Events and detects all of the known $z\geq7$ quasars (and over 80%
of the known $z\geq6.70$ quasars). As such, for relatively little additional
cost, adding the capacity for additional NEOCam data processing (and/or
alerting) would have a massive scientific and legacy impact on extragalactic
time domain science.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05644v1
Understanding the circumgalactic medium is critical for understanding
  galaxy evolution
Galaxies evolve under the influence of gas flows between their interstellar
medium and their surrounding gaseous halos known as the circumgalactic medium
(CGM). The CGM is a major reservoir of galactic baryons and metals, and plays a
key role in the long cycles of accretion, feedback, and recycling of gas that
drive star formation. In order to fully understand the physical processes at
work within galaxies, it is therefore essential to have a firm understanding of
the composition, structure, kinematics, thermodynamics, and evolution of the
CGM. In this white paper we outline connections between the CGM and galactic
star formation histories, internal kinematics, chemical evolution, quenching,
satellite evolution, dark matter halo occupation, and the reionization of the
larger-scale intergalactic medium in light of the advances that will be made on
these topics in the 2020s. We argue that, in the next decade, fundamental
progress on all of these major issues depends critically on improved empirical
characterization and theoretical understanding of the CGM. In particular, we
discuss how future advances in spatially-resolved CGM observations at high
spectral resolution, broader characterization of the CGM across galaxy mass and
redshift, and expected breakthroughs in cosmological hydrodynamic simulations
will help resolve these major problems in galaxy evolution.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1904.09313v1
Astro2020 Science White Paper: Using X-Ray Polarimetry to Probe the
  Physics of Black Holes and Neutron Stars
This white paper highlights compact object and fundamental physics science
opportunities afforded by high-throughput broadband (0.1-60 keV) X-ray
polarization observations. X-ray polarimetry gives new observables with
geometric information about stellar remnants which are many orders of magnitude
too small for direct imaging. The X-ray polarimetric data also reveal details
about the emission mechanisms and the structure of the magnetic fields in and
around the most extreme objects in the Universe. Whereas the Imaging X-ray
Polarimetry Explorer (IXPE) to be launched in 2021 will obtain first results
for bright objects, a follow-up mission could be one order of magnitude more
sensitive and would be able to use a broader bandpass to perform physics type
experiments for representative samples of sources.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1902.06612v1
An Arena for Multi-Messenger Astrophysics: Inspiral and Tidal Disruption
  of White Dwarfs by Massive Black Holes
The tidal disruption of stars by (super-)massive black holes in galactic
nuclei has been discussed in theoretical terms for about 30 years but only in
the past decade have we been able to detect such events in substantial numbers.
Thus, we are now starting to carry out observational tests of models for the
disruption. We are also formulating expectations for the inspiral and
disruption of white dwarfs by intermediate-mass black holes with masses $<
10^5\;{\rm M}_\odot$. Such events are very rich with information and open a new
window to intermediate-mass black holes, thought to live in dwarf galaxies and
star clusters. They can inform us of the demographics of intermediate-mass
black holes, stellar populations and dynamics in their immediate vicinity, and
the physics of accretion of hydrogen-deficient material. The combination of
upcoming transient surveys using ground-based, electromagnetic observatories
and low-frequency gravitational wave observations is ideal for exploiting tidal
disruptions of white dwarfs. The detection rate of gravitational wave signals,
optimistically, may reach a few dozen per year in a volume up to $z\approx
0.1$. Gravitational wave observations are particularly useful because they
yield the masses of the objects involved and allow determination of the spin of
the black hole, affording tests of physical models for black hole formation and
growth. They also give us advance warning of the electromagnetic flares by
weeks or more. The right computing infrastructure for modern models for the
disruption process and event rates will allow us to make the most of the
upcoming observing facilities.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05641v1
Galaxy Winds in the Age of Hyperdimensional Astrophysics
The past decade began with the first light of ALMA and will end at the start
of the new era of hyperdimensional astrophysics. Our community-wide movement
toward highly multiwavelength and multidimensional datasets has enabled immense
progress in each science frontier identified by the 2010 Decadal Survey,
particularly with regard to black hole feedback and the cycle of baryons in
galaxies. Facilities like ALMA and the next generation of integral field unit
(IFU) spectrographs together enable mapping the physical conditions and
kinematics of warm ionized and cold molecular gas in galaxies in unprecedented
detail (Fig. 1). JWST's launch at the start of the coming decade will push this
capability to the rest-frame UV at redshifts z > 6, mapping the birth of stars
in the first galaxies at cosmic dawn. Understanding of their subsequent
evolution, however, now awaits an ability to map the processes that transform
galaxies directly, rather than the consequences of those processes in
isolation. In this paper, we argue that doing so requires an equivalent
revolution in spatially resolved spectroscopy for the hot plasma that pervades
galaxies, the atmospheres in which they reside, and the winds that are the
engines of their evolution.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05648v1
Magnetars as Astrophysical Laboratories of Extreme Quantum
  Electrodynamics: The Case for a Compton Telescope
A next generation of Compton and pair telescopes that improve MeV-band
detection sensitivity by more than a decade beyond current instrumental
capabilities will open up new insights into a variety of astrophysical source
classes. Among these are magnetars, the most highly magnetic of the neutron
star zoo, which will serve as a prime science target for a new mission
surveying the MeV window. This paper outlines the core questions pertaining to
magnetars that can be addressed by such a technology. These range from global
magnetar geometry and population trends, to incisive probes of hard X-ray
emission locales, to providing cosmic laboratories for spectral and
polarimetric testing of exotic predictions of QED, principally the prediction
of the splitting of photons and magnetic pair creation. Such fundamental
physics cannot yet be discerned in terrestrial experiments. State of the art
modeling of the persistent hard X-ray tail emission in magnetars is presented
to outline the case for powerful diagnostics using Compton polarimeters. The
case highlights an inter-disciplinary opportunity to seed discovery at the
interface between astronomy and physics.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.08184v1
Probing the Time Domain with High Spatial Resolution
Two groundbreaking new facilities will commence operations early in the 2020s
and thereafter define much of the broad landscape of US optical-infrared
astronomy in the remaining decade. The Large Synoptic Survey Telescope (LSST),
perched atop Cerro Pachon in the Chilean Andes, will revolutionize the young
field of Time Domain Astronomy through its wide-field, multi-band optical
imaging survey. At the same time, the James Webb Space Telescope (JWST),
orbiting at the Sun-Earth L2 Lagrange point, will provide stunningly
high-resolution views of selected targets from the red end of the optical
spectrum to the mid-infrared. However, the spatial resolution of the LSST
observations will be limited by atmospheric seeing, while JWST will be limited
in its time-domain capabilities. This paper highlights the scientific
opportunities lying between these two landmark missions, i.e., science enabled
by systems capable of astronomical observations with both high cadence in the
time domain and high resolution in the spatial domain. The opportunities range
from constraining the late phases of stellar evolution in nearby resolved
populations to constraining dark matter distributions and cosmology using
lensed transient sources. We describe a system that can deliver the required
capabilities.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1905.11439v1
Resolving the cosmic X-ray background with a next-generation high-energy
  X-ray observatory
The cosmic X-ray background (CXB), which peaks at an energy of ~30 keV, is
produced primarily by emission from accreting supermassive black holes (SMBHs).
The CXB therefore serves as a constraint on the integrated SMBH growth in the
Universe and the accretion physics and obscuration in active galactic nuclei
(AGNs). This paper gives an overview of recent progress in understanding the
high-energy (>~10 keV) X-ray emission from AGNs and the synthesis of the CXB,
with an emphasis on results from NASA's NuSTAR hard X-ray mission. We then
discuss remaining challenges and open questions regarding the nature of AGN
obscuration and AGN physics. Finally, we highlight the exciting opportunities
for a next-generation, high-resolution hard X-ray mission to achieve the
long-standing goal of resolving and characterizing the vast majority of the
accreting SMBHs that produce the CXB.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.06796v1
Astro2020 Science White Paper: The Next Decade of Astroinformatics and
  Astrostatistics
Over the past century, major advances in astronomy and astrophysics have been
largely driven by improvements in instrumentation and data collection. With the
amassing of high quality data from new telescopes, and especially with the
advent of deep and large astronomical surveys, it is becoming clear that future
advances will also rely heavily on how those data are analyzed and interpreted.
New methodologies derived from advances in statistics, computer science, and
machine learning are beginning to be employed in sophisticated investigations
that are not only bringing forth new discoveries, but are placing them on a
solid footing. Progress in wide-field sky surveys, interferometric imaging,
precision cosmology, exoplanet detection and characterization, and many
subfields of stellar, Galactic and extragalactic astronomy, has resulted in
complex data analysis challenges that must be solved to perform scientific
inference. Research in astrostatistics and astroinformatics will be necessary
to develop the state-of-the-art methodology needed in astronomy. Overcoming
these challenges requires dedicated, interdisciplinary research. We recommend:
(1) increasing funding for interdisciplinary projects in astrostatistics and
astroinformatics; (2) dedicating space and time at conferences for
interdisciplinary research and promotion; (3) developing sustainable funding
for long-term astrostatisics appointments; and (4) funding infrastructure
development for data archives and archive support, state-of-the-art algorithms,
and efficient computing.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1904.01074v1
Astro2020 Science White Paper: Construction of an L* Galaxy: the
  Transformative Power of Wide Fields for Revealing the Past, Present and
  Future of the Great Andromeda System
The Great Andromeda Galaxy (M31) is the nexus of the near-far galaxy
evolution connection and a principal data point for near-field cosmology. Due
to its proximity (780 kpc), M31 can be resolved into individual stars like the
Milky Way (MW). Unlike the MW, we have the advantage of a global view of M31,
enabling M31 to be observed with techniques that also apply to more distant
galaxies. Moreover, recent evidence suggests that M31 may have survived a major
merger within the last several Gyr, shaping the morphology of its stellar halo
and triggering a starburst, while leaving the stellar disk largely intact. The
MW and M31 thus provide complementary opportunities for in-depth studies of the
disks, halos, and satellites of L* galaxies.
  Our understanding of the M31 system will be transformed in the 2020s if they
include wide field facilities for both photometry (HST-like sensitivity and
resolution) and spectroscopy (10-m class telescope, >1 sq. deg. field, highly
multiplexed, R~ 3000 to 6000). We focus here on the power of these facilities
to constrain the past, present, and future merger history of M31, via
chemo-dynamical analyses and star formation histories of phase-mixed stars
accreted at early times, as well as stars in surviving tidal debris features,
M31's extended disk, and intact satellite galaxies that will eventually be
tidally incorporated into the halo. This will yield an unprecedented view of
the hierarchical formation of the M31 system and the subhalos that built it
into the L* galaxy we observe today.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1902.10263v1
Relativistic Jets in the Accretion & Collimation Zone: New Challenges
  Enabled by New Instruments
Jets are a ubiquitous part of the accretion process, seen in a wide variety
of objects ranging from active galaxies (AGN) to X-ray binary stars and even
newly formed stars. AGN jets are accelerated by the supermassive black hole of
their host galaxy by a coupling between the magnetic field and inflowing
material. They are the source for many exciting phenomena and can profoundly
influence the larger galaxy and surrounding cluster.
  This White Paper points out what advances can be achieved in the field by new
technologies, concentrating on the zone where jets are accelerated to
relativistic speeds and collimated. The ngVLA and new space VLBI missions will
give higher angular resolution, sensitivity and fidelity in the radio,
penetrating this zone for additional objects and allowing us to resolve
fundamental questions over the physics of jet acceleration and collimation.
Interferometry in other bands would allow us to probe directly flaring
components. We also emphasize the need for polarimetry, which is essential to
revealing the role and configuration of magnetic fields.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.02574v1
X-rays Studies of the Solar System
X-ray observatories contribute fundamental advances in Solar System studies
by probing Sun-object interactions, developing planet and satellite surface
composition maps, probing global magnetospheric dynamics, and tracking
astrochemical reactions. Despite these crucial results, the technological
limitations of current X-ray instruments hinder the overall scope and impact
for broader scientific application of X-ray observations both now and in the
coming decade. Implementation of modern advances in X-ray optics will provide
improvements in effective area, spatial resolution, and spectral resolution for
future instruments. These improvements will usher in a truly transformative era
of Solar System science through the study of X-ray emission.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04496v1
Astrophysics and Cosmology with Line-Intensity Mapping
Line-Intensity Mapping is an emerging technique which promises new insights
into the evolution of the Universe, from star formation at low redshifts to the
epoch of reionization and cosmic dawn. It measures the integrated emission of
atomic and molecular spectral lines from galaxies and the intergalactic medium
over a broad range of frequencies, using instruments with aperture requirements
that are greatly relaxed relative to surveys for single objects. A coordinated,
comprehensive, multi-line intensity-mapping experimental effort can efficiently
probe over 80% of the volume of the observable Universe - a feat beyond the
reach of other methods. Line-intensity mapping will uniquely address a wide
array of pressing mysteries in galaxy evolution, cosmology, and fundamental
physics. Among them are the cosmic history of star formation and galaxy
evolution, the compositions of the interstellar and intergalactic media, the
physical processes that take place during the epoch of reionization,
cosmological inflation, the validity of Einstein's gravity theory on the
largest scales, the nature of dark energy and the origin of dark matter.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04531v1
The hidden circumgalactic medium
The cycling of baryons in and out of galaxies is what ultimately drives
galaxy formation and evolution. The circumgalactic medium (CGM) represents the
interface between the interstellar medium and the cosmic web, hence its
properties are directly shaped by the baryon cycle. Although traditionally the
CGM is thought to consist of warm and hot gas, recent breakthroughs are
presenting a new scenario according to which an important fraction of its mass
may reside in the cold atomic and molecular phase. This would represent fuel
that is readily available for star formation, with crucial implications for
feeding and feedback processes in galaxies. However, such cold CGM, especially
in local galaxies where its projected size on sky is expected to be of several
arcminutes, cannot be imaged by ALMA due to interferometric spatial scale
filtering of large-scale structures. We show that the only way to probe the
multiphase CGM including its coldest component is through a large (e.g. 50-m)
single dish (sub-)mm telescope.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04635v1
The warm and dense Galaxy - tracing the formation of dense cloud
  structures out to the Galactic Center
The past two decades have seen extensive surveys of the far-infrared to
submillimeter continuum emission in the plane of our Galaxy. We line out
prospects for the coming decade for corresponding molecular and atomic line
surveys which are needed to fully understand the formation of the dense
structures that give birth to clusters and stars out of the diffuse
interstellar medium. We propose to work towards Galaxy wide surveys in mid-J CO
lines to trace shocks from colliding clouds, Galaxy-wide surveys for atomic
Carbon lines in order to get a detailed understanding of the relation of atomic
and molecular gas in clouds, and to perform extensive surveys of the structure
of the dense parts of molecular clouds to understand the importance of
filaments/fibers over the full range of Galactic environments and to study how
dense cloud cores are formed from the filaments. This work will require a large
(50m) Single Dish submillimeter telescope equipped with massively multipixel
spectrometer arrays, such as envisaged by the AtLAST project.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04691v1
Radio Time-Domain Signatures of Magnetar Birth
The last decade has seen the rapid, concurrent development of new classes of
energetic astrophysical transients, including Fast Radio Bursts, Superluminous
Supernovae, and ultralong gamma-ray bursts. We consider the implications of an
emerging consensus on the origin of these diverse phenomena as different
signatures of magnetar birth. We describe how magnetar-powered radio transients
from milliseconds to gigaseconds will be used to address diverse physical
questions related to the stellar evolution and death, the circum- and
intergalactic medium, and fundamental physics on scales ranging from the
quantum to cosmological. We argue that high-sensitivity radio interferometer
concepts in development will be critical to accessing this science. There is
also a growing need for scientists with expertise in new statistical tools and
software techniques.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04730v1
Gravitational wave cosmology and astrophysics with large spectroscopic
  galaxy surveys
During the next decade, gravitational waves will be observed from hundreds of
binary inspiral events. When the redshifts of the host galaxies are known,
these events can be used as `standard sirens', sensitive to the expansion rate
of the Universe. Measurements of the Hubble constant $H_0$ from standard sirens
can be done independently of other cosmological probes, and events occurring at
$z<0.1$ will allow us to infer $H_0$ independently of cosmological models. The
next generation of spectroscopic galaxy surveys will play a crucial role in
reducing systematic uncertainties in $H_0$ from standard sirens, particularly
for the numerous `dark sirens' which do not have an electromagnetic
counterpart. In combination with large spectroscopic data sets, standard sirens
with an EM counterpart are expected to constrain $H_0$ to $\sim 1-2\%$
precision within the next decade. This is competitive with the best estimates
of $H_0$ obtained to date and will help illuminate the current tension between
existing measurements. Information on the galaxies that host the gravitational
wave events will also shed light on the origin and evolution of compact object
binaries.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04743v1
Dynamical Masses for a Complete Census of Local Dwarf Galaxies
The 2020s are poised to continue the past two decades of significant advances
based on observations of dwarf galaxies in the nearby universe. Upcoming
wide-field photometric surveys will probe substantially deeper than previous
data sets, pushing the discovery frontier for new dwarf galaxies to fainter
magnitudes, lower surface brightnesses, and larger distances. These dwarfs will
be compelling targets for testing models of galaxy formation and cosmology,
including the properties of dark matter and possible modifications to gravity.
However, most of the science that can be extracted from nearby dwarf galaxies
relies on spectroscopy with large telescopes. We suggest that maximizing the
scientific impact of near-future imaging surveys will require both major
spectroscopic surveys on 6-10m telescopes and multiplexed spectroscopy with
even larger apertures.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04833v1
Spectroscopic Observations of the Fermi Bubbles
Two giant plasma lobes, known as the Fermi Bubbles, extend 10 kpc above and
below the Galactic Center. Since their discovery in X-rays in 2003 (and in
gamma-rays in 2010), the Bubbles have been recognized as a new morphological
feature of our Galaxy and a striking example of energetic feedback from the
nuclear region. They remain the subject of intense research and their origin
via AGN activity or nuclear star formation is still debated. While imaging at
gamma-ray, X-ray, microwave, and radio wavelengths has revealed their
morphology and energetics, spectroscopy at radio and UV wavelengths has
recently been used to study the kinematics and chemical abundances of
outflowing gas clouds embedded in the Bubbles (the nuclear wind). Here we
identify the scientific themes that have emerged from the spectroscopic
studies, determine key open questions, and describe further observations needed
in the next ten years to characterize the basic physical conditions in the
nuclear wind and its impact on the rest of the Galaxy. Nuclear winds are
ubiquitous in galaxies, and the Galactic Center represents the best opportunity
to study the constitution and structure of a nuclear wind in close detail.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04839v1
Historical astronomical data: urgent need for preservation, digitization
  enabling scientific exploration
Over the past decades and even centuries, the astronomical community has
accumulated a signif-icant heritage of recorded observations of a great many
astronomical objects. Those records con-tain irreplaceable information about
long-term evolutionary and non-evolutionary changes in our Universe, and their
preservation and digitization is vital. Unfortunately, most of those data risk
becoming degraded and thence totally lost. We hereby call upon the astronomical
community and US funding agencies to recognize the gravity of the situation,
and to commit to an interna-tional preservation and digitization efforts
through comprehensive long-term planning supported by adequate resources,
prioritizing where the expected scientific gains, vulnerability of the
origi-nals and availability of relevant infrastructure so dictates. The
importance and urgency of this issue has been recognized recently by General
Assembly XXX of the International Astronomical Union (IAU) in its Resolution
B3: "on preservation, digitization and scientific exploration of his-torical
astronomical data". We outline the rationale of this promotion, provide
examples of new science through successful recovery efforts, and review the
potential losses to science if nothing it done.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04902v1
Intermediate-Mass Black Holes in Extragalactic Globular Clusters
Intermediate-mass black holes (IMBHs) have masses of about 100 to 100,000
solar masses. They remain elusive. Observing IMBHs in present-day globular
clusters (GCs) would validate a formation channel for seed black holes in the
early universe and inform event predictions for gravitational wave facilities.
Reaching a large number of GCs per galaxy is key, as models predict that only a
few percent will have retained their gravitational-wave fostering IMBHs.
Related, many galaxies will need to be examined to establish a robust sample of
IMBHs in GCs. These needs can be meet by using a next-generation Very Large
Array (ngVLA) to search for IMBHs in the GCs of hundreds of galaxies out to a
distance of 25 Mpc. These galaxies hold tens of thousands of GCs in total. We
describe how to convert an ngVLA signal from a GC to an IMBH mass according to
a semi-empirical accretion model. Simulations of gas flows in GCs would help to
improve the robustness of the conversion. Also, self-consistent dynamical
models of GCs, with stellar and binary evolution in the presence of IMBHs,
would help to improve IMBH retention predictions for present-day GCs.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05085v1
Astro2020 Science White Paper: Science at the edges: internal kinematics
  of globular clusters' external fields
The outer regions of globular clusters can enable us to answer many
fundamental questions concerning issues ranging from the formation and
evolution of clusters and their multiple stellar populations to the study of
stars near and beyond the hydrogen-burning limit and to the dynamics of the
Milky Way. The outskirts of globular clusters are still uncharted territories
observationally. A very efficient way to explore them is through high-precision
proper motions of low-mass stars over a large field of view. The Wide Field
InfraRed Survey Telescope (WFIRST) combines all these characteristics in a
single telescope, making it the best observational tool to uncover the wealth
of information contained in the clusters' outermost regions.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05150v1
High-Dimensional Dust Mapping
Galactic interstellar dust has a profound impact not only on our observations
of objects throughout the Universe, but also on the morphology, star formation,
and chemical evolution of the Galaxy. The advent of massive imaging and
spectroscopic surveys (particularly in the infrared) places us on the threshold
of being able to map the properties and dynamics of dust and the interstellar
medium (ISM) in three dimensions throughout the Milky Way disk and bulge. These
developments will enable a fundamentally new understanding of dust properties,
including how grains respond to their local environment and how those
environments affect dust attenuation of background objects of interest.
Distance-resolved maps of dust motion also hold great promise for tracing the
flow of interstellar material throughout the Galaxy on a variety of scales,
from bar-streaming motions to the collapse and dissolution of individual
molecular clouds. These advances require optical and infrared imaging of stars
throughout the Galactic midplane, stretching many kiloparsecs from the Sun,
matched with very dense spectroscopic coverage to probe the ISM's fine-grained
structure.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05478v1
Polarization in Disks
Polarized dust emission outside of disks reveal the magnetic field morphology
of molecular clouds. Within disks, however, polarized dust emission can arise
from very different mechanisms (e.g., self-scattering), and each of them are
useful for constraining physical properties in the disk. For example, these
mechanisms allow us to constrain the disk grain size distributions and
grain/disk geometries, independent from current methods of measuring these
parameters. To accurately model these features and disentangle the various
polarization mechanisms, multiwavelength observations at very high resolution
and sensitivity are required. With significant upgrades to current
interferometric facilities, we can understand how grains evolve in disks during
the planet formation process.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05606v1
The Future Landscape of High-Redshift Galaxy Cluster Science
Modern galaxy cluster science is a multi-wavelength endeavor with
cornerstones provided by X-ray, optical/IR, mm, and radio measurements. In
combination, these observations enable the construction of large, clean,
complete cluster catalogs, and provide precise redshifts and robust mass
calibration. The complementary nature of these multi-wavelength data
dramatically reduces the impact of systematic effects that limit the utility of
measurements made in any single waveband. The future of multi-wavelength
cluster science is compelling, with cluster catalogs set to expand by orders of
magnitude in size, and extend, for the first time, into the high-redshift
regime where massive, virialized structures first formed. Unlocking
astrophysical and cosmological insight from the coming catalogs will require
new observing facilities that combine high spatial and spectral resolution with
large collecting areas, as well as concurrent advances in simulation modeling
campaigns. Together, future multi-wavelength observations will resolve the
thermodynamic structure in and around the first groups and clusters,
distinguishing the signals from active and star-forming galaxies, and unveiling
the interrelated stories of galaxy evolution and structure formation during the
epoch of peak cosmic activity.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05660v1
Cosmic Rays and Interstellar Medium with Gamma-Ray Observations at MeV
  Energies
Latest precise cosmic-ray (CR) measurements and present gamma-ray
observations have started challenging our understanding of CR transport and
interaction in the Galaxy. Moreover, because the density of CRs is similar to
the density of the magnetic field, gas, and starlight in the interstellar
medium (ISM), CRs are expected to affect the ISM dynamics, including the
physical and chemical processes that determine transport and star formation. In
this context, observations of gamma-ray emission at MeV energies produced by
the low-energy CRs are very important and urgent. A telescope covering the
energy range between ~0.1 MeV and a few GeV with a sensitivity more than an
order of magnitude better than previous instruments would allow for the first
time to study in detail the low-energy CRs, providing information on their
sources, their spectra throughout the Galaxy, their abundances, transport
properties, and their role on the evolution of the Galaxy and star formation.
Here we discuss the scientific prospects for studies of CRs, ISM (gas,
interstellar photons, and magnetic fields) and associated gamma-ray emissions
with such an instrument.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05745v1
The Nature of Low-Density Star Formation
How do stars manage to form within low-density, HI-dominated gas? Such
environments provide a laboratory for studying star formation with physical
conditions distinct from starbursts and the metal-rich disks of spiral galaxies
where most effort has been invested. Here we outline fundamental open questions
about the nature of star formation at low-density. We describe the wide-field,
high-resolution UV-optical-IR-radio observations of stars, star clusters and
gas clouds in nearby galaxies needed in the 2020's to provide definitive
answers, essential for development of a complete theory of star formation.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05765v1
Neutrinos, Cosmic Rays and the MeV Band
The possible association of the blazar TXS 0506+056 with a high-energy
neutrino detected by IceCube holds the tantalizing potential to answer three
astrophysical questions: 1. Where do high-energy neutrinos originate? 2. Where
are cosmic rays produced and accelerated? 3. What radiation mechanisms produce
the high-energy {\gamma}-rays in blazars? The MeV gamma-ray band holds the key
to these questions, because it is an excellent proxy for photo-hadronic
processes in blazar jets, which also produce neutrino counterparts. Variability
in MeV gamma-rays sheds light on the physical conditions and mechanisms that
take place in the particle acceleration sites in blazar jets. In addition,
hadronic blazar models also predict a high level of polarization fraction in
the MeV band, which can unambiguously distinguish the radiation mechanism.
Future MeV missions with a large field of view, high sensitivity, and
polarization capabilities will play a central role in multi-messenger
astronomy, since pointed, high-resolution telescopes will follow neutrino
alerts only when triggered by an all-sky instrument.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05845v1
Looking Under a Better Lamppost: MeV-scale Dark Matter Candidates
The era of precision cosmology has revealed that about 85% of the matter in
the universe is dark matter. Two well-motivated candidates are weakly
interacting massive particles (WIMPs) and weakly interacting sub-eV particles
(WISPs) (e.g. axions). Both WIMPs and WISPs possess distinct {\gamma}-ray
signatures. Over the last decade, data taken between 50 MeV to >300 GeV by the
Fermi Large Area Telescope (Fermi-LAT) have provided stringent constraints on
both classes of dark matter models. Thus far, there are no conclusive
detections. However, there is an intriguing {\gamma}-ray excess associated with
the Galactic center that could be explained by WIMP annihilation. At lower
energies, the poor angular resolution of the Fermi-LAT makes source
identification challenging, inhibiting our ability to more sensitively probe
both the Galactic center excess, as well as lower-mass WIMP and WISP models.
Additionally, targeted WISP searches (e.g., those probing supernovae and
blazars) would greatly benefit from enhanced energy resolution and polarization
measurements in the MeV range. To address these issues, a new telescope that is
optimized for MeV observations is needed. Such an instrument would allow us to
explore new areas of dark matter parameter space and provide unprecedented
access to its particle nature.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.06106v1
Supermassive black holes at high redshifts
MeV blazars are the most luminous persistent sources in the Universe and emit
most of their energy in the MeV band. These objects display very large jet
powers and accretion luminosities and are known to host black holes with a mass
often exceeding $10^9 M_{\odot}$. An MeV survey, performed by a new generation
MeV telescope which will bridge the entire energy and sensitivity gap between
the current generation of hard X-ray and gamma-ray instruments, will detect
$>$1000 MeV blazars up to a redshift of $z=5-6$. Here we show that this would
allow us: 1) to probe the formation and growth mechanisms of supermassive black
holes at high redshifts, 2) to pinpoint the location of the emission region in
powerful blazars, 3) to determine how accretion and black hole spin interplay
to power the jet.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.06250v1
Far to near UV spectroscopy of the interstellar medium at very high
  resolution and very high signal-to-noise ratio
A comprehensive study of interstellar medium phases and the nature of their
boundaries or connections requires comparing abundances and velocity profiles
from tracers of the different phases. In the UV, studies of a wealth of
absorption features appearing in the spectra of hot stars yield fundamental
insights into the composition and physical characteristics of all phases of the
ISM along with the processes that influence them. They also inform us on the
nature of boundaries between them. However no single instrument has as yet
given access to species in all ISM phases at the same high spectral resolution:
from the molecular bands of CO and H2 in the far-UV, to the cold neutral medium
tracers C I and S I and the warm medium tracers like C II, NI, OI, Mg II, Fe
II, Si II etc, and to the high ions of the hot ionized medium C IV, Si IV in
the UV, as well as O VI in the far UV. We have yet to design the spectrometer
that will enable observing the full UV domain at resolving power R>200 000 and
signal-to-noise ratio SNR>500. The line FWHM being governed by turbulence,
temperature, and species mass, such a resolution is necessary to resolve lines
from both the cold molecular hydrogen and the warm metal ions with a turbulence
of ~1 km/s, and to differentiate distinct velocity components, typically
separated by less than 2 km/s.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.06321v1
Solar system Deep Time-Surveys of atmospheres, surfaces, and rings
Imaging and resolved spectroscopy reveal varying environmental conditions in
our dynamic solar system. Many key advances have focused on how these
conditions change over time. Observatory-level commitments to conduct annual
observations of solar system bodies would establish a long-term legacy
chronicling the evolution of dynamic planetary atmospheres, surfaces, and
rings. Science investigations will use these temporal datasets to address
potential biosignatures, circulation and evolution of atmospheres from the edge
of the habitable zone to the ice giants, orbital dynamics and planetary
seismology with ring systems, exchange between components in the planetary
system, and the migration and processing of volatiles on icy bodies, including
Ocean Worlds. The common factor among these diverse investigations is the need
for a very long campaign duration, and temporal sampling at an annual cadence.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.06349v2
The Sun at GeV--TeV Energies: A New Laboratory for Astroparticle Physics
The Sun is an excellent laboratory for astroparticle physics but remains
poorly understood at GeV--TeV energies. Despite the immense relevance for both
cosmic-ray propagation and dark matter searches, only in recent years has the
Sun become a target for precision gamma-ray astronomy with the Fermi-LAT
instrument. Among the most surprising results from the observations is a hard
excess of GeV gamma-ray flux that strongly anti-correlates with solar activity,
especially at the highest energies accessible to Fermi-LAT. Most of the
observed properties of the gamma-ray emission cannot be explained by existing
models of cosmic-ray interactions with the solar atmosphere. GeV--TeV gamma-ray
observations of the Sun spanning an entire solar cycle would provide key
insights into the origin of these gamma rays, and consequently improve our
understanding of the Sun's environment as well as the foregrounds for new
physics searches, such as dark matter. These can be complemented with new
observations with neutrinos and cosmic rays. Together these observations make
the Sun a new testing ground for particle physics in dynamic environments.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.06429v1
Probing 3D Density and Velocity Fields of ISM in Centers of Galaxies
  with Future X-Ray Observations
Observations of bright and variable "reflected" X-ray emission from molecular
clouds located within inner hundred parsec of our Galaxy have demonstrated that
the central supermassive black hole, Sgr A*, experienced short and powerful
flares in the past few hundred years. These flares offer a truly unique
opportunity to determine 3D location of the illuminated clouds (with ~10 pc
accuracy) and to reveal their internal structure (down to 0.1 pc scales). Short
duration of the flare(s), combined with X-rays high penetration power and
insensitivity of the reflection signal to thermo- and chemo-dynamical state of
the gas, ensures that the provided diagnostics of the density and velocity
fields is unbiased and almost free of the projection and opacity effects. Sharp
and sensitive snapshots of molecular gas accessible with aid of future X-ray
observatories featuring large collecting area and high angular (arcsec-level)
and spectral (eV-level) resolution cryogenic bolometers will present invaluable
information on properties of the supersonic turbulence inside the illuminated
clouds, map their shear velocity field and allow cross-matching between X-ray
data and velocity-resolved emission of various molecular species provided by
ALMA and other ground-based facilities. This will highlight large and
small-scale dynamics of the dense gas and help uncovering specifics of the ISM
lifecycle and high-mass star formation under very extreme conditions of
galactic centers. While the former is of particular importance for the SMBH
feeding and triggering AGN feedback, the latter might be an excellent test case
for star formation taking place in high-redshift galaxies.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.06777v1
Exploring the physics of neutron stars with high-resolution,
  high-throughput X-ray spectroscopy
The advent of moderately high-resolution X-ray spectroscopy with Chandra and
XMM promised to usher in a new age in the study of neutron stars: we thought we
would study neutron stars like stars, with resolved absorption spectra
revealing their surface chemical composition and physical conditions (e.g.
surface gravity, pressure, temperature). Nature, however, did not cooperate in
this endeavor, as observations of neutron stars have not revealed verified
atomic absorption lines yet. In the near future, advancements in
transition-edge sensors (TES) technology will allow for
electron-volt-resolution spectroscopy combined with nanoseconds-precision
timing. Combining these detectors with collector optics will also us to study
neutron stars in much greater detail by achieving high-energy resolution with
much larger collecting areas to uncover even weak spectral features over a wide
range of the photon energies. Perhaps we will finally be able to study neutron
stars like stars.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.07000v1
Completing the Hydrogen Census in the Circumgalactic Medium at z~0
Over the past decade, Lyman-alpha and metal line absorption observations have
established the ubiquity of a gas-rich circumgalactic medium (CGM) around
star-forming galaxies at z~0.2 potentially tracing half of the missing baryonic
mass within galaxy halos. Unfortunately, these observations only provide a
statistical measure of the gas in the CGM and do not constrain the spatial
distribution and kinematics of the gas. Furthermore, we have limited
sensitivity to Lyman-alpha at z~0 with existing instruments. As such, we remain
ignorant of how this gas may flow from the CGM onto the disks of galaxies where
it can fuel ongoing star-formation in the present day. Fortunately, 21-cm HI
observations with radio telescopes can map HI emission providing both spatial
and kinematic information for the CGM in galaxies at z=0. Observations with
phased array feeds, radio cameras, on single-dish telescopes yield unmatched
surface brightness sensitivity and survey speed. These observations can
complete the census of HI in the CGM below N(HI)<10^17 cm^-2 and constrain how
gas accretion is proceeding in the local universe, particularly when used in
concert with UV absorption line data.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.07370v1
Twelve Decades: Probing the Interstellar Medium from kiloparsec to
  sub-AU scales
After a decade of great progress in understanding gas flow into, out of, and
through the Milky Way, we are poised to merge observations with simulations to
build a comprehensive picture of the multi-scale magnetized interstellar medium
(ISM). These insights will also be crucial to four bold initiatives in the
2020s: detecting nanohertz gravitational waves with pulsar timing arrays
(PTAs), decoding fast radio bursts (FRBs), cosmic B-mode detection, and imaging
the Milky Way's black hole with the Event Horizon Telescope (EHT).

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.07628v1
Time-Domain Photometry of Protostars at Far-Infrared and Submillimeter
  Wavelengths
The majority of the ultimate main-sequence mass of a star is assembled in the
protostellar phase, where a forming star is embedded in an infalling envelope
and encircled by a protoplanetary disk. Studying mass accretion in protostars
is thus a key to understanding how stars gain their mass and ultimately how
their disks and planets form and evolve. At this early stage, the dense
envelope reprocesses most of the luminosity generated by accretion to
far-infrared and submillimeter wavelengths. Time-domain photometry at these
wavelengths is needed to probe the physics of accretion onto protostars, but
variability studies have so far been limited, in large part because of the
difficulty in accessing these wavelengths from the ground. We discuss the
scientific progress that would be enabled with far-infrared and submillimeter
programs to probe protostellar variability in the nearest kiloparsec.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.07636v1
Following the Metals in the Intergalactic and Circumgalactic Medium over
  Cosmic Time
The circumgalactic medium (CGM) of galaxies serves as a record of the
influences of outflows and accretion that drive the evolution of galaxies.
Feedback from star formation drives outflows that carry mass and metals away
from galaxies to the CGM, while infall from the intergalactic medium (IGM) is
thought to bring in fresh gas to fuel star formation. Such exchanges of matter
between IGM-CGM-galaxies have proven critical to producing galaxy scaling
relations in cosmological simulations that match observations. However, the
nature of these processes, of the physics that drives outflows and accretion,
and their evolution with cosmic time are not fully characterized. One approach
to constraining these processes is to characterize the metal enrichment of gas
around and beyond galaxies. Measurements of the metallicity distribution
functions of CGM/IGM gas over cosmic time provide independent tests of
cosmological simulations. We have made great progress over the last decade as
direct result of a very sensitive, high-resolution space-based UV spectrograph
and the rise of ground-based spectroscopic archives. We argue the next
transformative leap to track CGM/IGM metals during the epoch of galaxy
formation and transformation into quiescent galaxies will require 1) a larger
space telescope with an even more sensitive high-resolution spectrograph
covering both the far- and near-UV (1,000-3,000 \AA); and 2) ground-based
archives housing science-ready data.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.07691v1
Exploring the composition of icy bodies at the fringes of the Solar
  System with next generation space telescopes
Determining the distribution and spectral signature of volatile ices and
organics exposed on icy body surfaces can provide crucial clues for deciphering
how the outer solar system formed and evolved. Over the past few decades,
ground- and space-based telescope observations have probed the compositions of
a wide range of icy objects with primordial and processed surfaces, revealing
the presence of numerous volatile ices and organic residues. Although these
telescope observations have advanced our understanding of icy bodies beyond
Saturn, the sensitivity and spatial resolution of collected datasets are
limited by the large heliocentric distances of these far-flung objects.
Furthermore, most observations have focused on the visible (VIS, 0.4 - 0.7
microns) and near-infrared (NIR, 0.7 - 2.5 microns), with fewer observations at
longer NIR wavelengths (2.5 - 5.0 microns) and in the far to near ultraviolet
(UV, 0.1 - 0.4 microns), which represents a critical wavelength region for
investigating modification of ices and organics by UV photolysis and charged
particle radiolysis. Thus, our understanding of icy bodies beyond Saturn is
limited by the capabilities of available facilities, and key questions
regarding their surface compositions remain to be explored. Next generation
space telescopes (NGSTs) with greater sensitivity and angular resolution in the
UV, VIS, and longer NIR are therefore needed to help unveil the surface
compositions of icy bodies residing at the fringes of our solar system.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.08653v2
Gravitational Waves, Extreme Astrophysics, and Fundamental Physics with
  Precision Pulsar Timing
Precision pulsar timing at the level of tens to hundreds of nanoseconds
allows detection of nanohertz gravitational waves (GWs) from supermassive
binary black holes (SMBBHs) at the cores of merging galaxies and, potentially,
from exotic sources such as cosmic strings. The same timing data used for GW
astronomy also yield precision masses of neutron stars orbiting other compact
objects, constraints on the equation of state of nuclear matter, and precision
tests of General Relativity, the Strong Equivalence Principle, and alternative
theories of gravity. Timing can also lead to stringent constraints on the
photon mass and on changes in fundamental constants and could reveal low mass
objects (rogue planets, dark matter clumps) that traverse pulsar lines of
sight. Data sets also allow modeling of the density, magnetic field, and
turbulence in the interstellar plasma. Roughly 100 millisecond pulsars (MSPs)
are currently being timed at $\sim$GHz frequencies using the largest radio
telescopes in the world. These data sets currently represent ~1000 pulsar-years
and will increase dramatically over the next decade. These topics are presented
as a program of key science with flowdown technical requirements for achieving
the science.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.08993v1
Metal Abundances and Depletions in the Neutral Interstellar Medium of
  Galaxies: the Local Volume as a Laboratory
The comparison of chemical abundances in the neutral gas of galaxies to
photospheric abundances of old and young stars, ionized gas abundances, and
abundances in galactic halos can trace the chemical enrichment of the universe
through cosmic times. In particular, our understanding of chemical enrichment
through spectroscopic observations of damped Lyman alpha systems (DLAs) relies
on corrections for depletion of metals from the gas to the dust phase. These
corrections must be determined in the nearby universe, where both gas-phase
abundances and photospheric abundances of young stars recently formed out of
the interstellar medium can be measured. Multi-object high-resolution
(R>50,000) ultraviolet (970-2400 A) and optical (300-600 nm) spectroscopy
toward massive stars in local volume galaxies (D < 15 Mpc) covering a wide
range of metallicities (a few % solar to solar) and morphological types will
provide the abundance and depletion measurements needed to obtain a detailed
and comprehensive characterization of the lifecycle of metals in neutral gas
and dust in galaxies, thereby observationally addressing important questions
about chemical enrichment and galaxy evolution.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.09173v1
Characterizing the Atmospheres of Irradiated Exoplanets at High Spectral
  Resolution
The best-characterized exoplanets to date are planets on close-in transiting
orbits around their host stars. The high level of irradiation and transiting
geometry of these objects make them ideal targets for atmospheric
investigations. However, the modest apertures of many current telescopes allow
mostly low resolution spectra to be observed for transiting planets, failing to
extract key physical and chemical properties of their atmospheres. Ground-based
30-meter class telescopes will set the stage for a substantial leap in our
understanding of exoplanet atmospheres. We outline a two-pronged survey,
recently submitted as a Key Science Project (KSP) for the US ELTs, which would
yield unprecedented insight into the atmospheres of close-in exoplanets via
combined observations with the GMT and TMT. (1) The first opportunity involves
measuring the global-scale atmospheric circulation and planetary rotation for a
sample of 40 hot Jupiters to glean insight into the unique radiative forcing
regime governing highly-irradiated, tidally-locked giant planets. (2) The
second opportunity involves measuring atmospheric mass-loss and extracting
atmospheric composition and abundance ratio information for $\sim60$
sub-Neptunes and super-Earths (including candidate disintegrating planets) to
constrain their formation and evolution histories. These efforts would be made
possible by the unparalleled combination of high spectral resolution
instrumentation and large aperture size of the ELTs. This survey would enable
the first statistical study of atmospheric circulation in extrasolar giant
planets, and would provide detections of trace gases and measurements of
atmospheric escape in small-planet atmospheres, far exceeding the reach of
\textit{JWST}.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.09306v1
Understanding Accretion Outbursts in Massive Protostars through Maser
  Imaging
The bright maser emission produced by several molecular species at centimeter
to long millimeter wavelengths provides an essential tool for understanding the
process of massive star formation. Unimpeded by the high dust optical depths
that affect shorter wavelength observations, the high brightness temperature of
these emission lines offers a way to resolve accretion and outflow motions down
to scales below $\sim$1 au in deeply embedded Galactic star-forming regions at
kiloparsec distances. The recent identification of extraordinary accretion
outbursts in two high-mass protostars, both of which were heralded by maser
flares, has rapidly impacted the traditional view of massive protostellar
evolution, leading to new hydrodynamic simulations that can produce such
episodic outbursts. In order to understand how these massive protostars evolve
in response to such events, larger, more sensitive ground-based centimeter
wavelength interferometers are needed that can simultaneously image multiple
maser species in the molecular gas along with faint continuum from the central
ionized gas. Fiducial observations of a large sample of massive protostars will
be essential in order to pinpoint the progenitors of future accretion
outbursts, and to quantify the outburst-induced changes in their protostellar
photospheres and outflow and accretion structures. Knowledge gained from these
studies will have broader impact on the general topic of accretion onto massive
objects.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.09529v1
AGN (and other) astrophysics with Gravitational Wave Events
The stellar mass binary black hole (sBBH) mergers presently detected by LIGO
may originate wholly or in part from binary black hole mergers embedded in
disks of gas around supermassive black holes. Determining the contribution of
these active galactic nucleus (AGN) disks to the sBBH merger rate enables us to
uniquely measure important parameters of AGN disks, including their typical
density, aspect ratio, and lifetime, thereby putting unique limits on an
important element of galaxy formation. For the first time, gravitational waves
will allow us to reveal the properties of the hidden interior of AGN disks,
while electromagnetic radiation (EM) probes the disk photosphere. The
localization of sBBH merger events from LIGO is generally insufficient for
association with a single EM counterpart. However, the contribution to the LIGO
event rate from rare source types (such as AGNs) can be determined on a
statistical basis. To determine the contribution to the sBBH rate from AGNs in
the next decade requires: {\em 1) a complete galaxy catalog for the LIGO search
volume, 2) strategic multi-wavelength EM follow-up of LIGO events and 3)
significant advances in theoretical understanding of AGN disks and the behavior
of objects embedded within them.}

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.09858v1
Astro 2020 Science White Paper: Time Domain Studies of Neutron Star and
  Black Hole Populations: X-ray Identification of Compact Object Types
What are the most important conditions and processes governing the growth of
stellar-origin compact objects? The identification of compact object type as
either black hole (BH) or neutron star (NS) is fundamental to understanding
their formation and evolution. To date, time-domain determination of compact
object type remains a relatively untapped tool. Measurement of orbital periods,
pulsations, and bursts will lead to a revolution in the study of the
demographics of NS and BH populations, linking source phenomena to accretion
and galaxy parameters (e.g., star formation, metallicity). To perform these
measurements over sufficient parameter space, a combination of a wide-field
(>5000 deg^2) transient X-ray monitor over a dynamic energy range (~1-100 keV)
and an X-ray telescope for deep surveys with <5 arcsec PSF half-energy width
(HEW) angular resolution are required. Synergy with multiwavelength data for
characterizing the underlying stellar population will transform our
understanding of the time domain properties of transient sources, helping to
explain details of supernova explosions and gravitational wave event rates.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.10649v1
The Panchromatic Circumgalactic Medium
Galaxies are surrounded by extended atmospheres, which are often called the
circumgalactic medium (CGM) and are the least understood part of galactic
ecosystems. The CGM serves as a reservoir of both diffuse, metal-poor gas
accreted from the intergalactic medium, and metal-rich gas that is either
ejected from galaxies by energetic feedback or stripped from infalling
satellites. As such, the CGM is empirically multi-phased and complex in
dynamics. Significant progress has been made in the past decade or so in
observing the cosmic-ray/B-field, as well as various phases of the CGM. But
basic questions remain to be answered. First, what are the energy, mass, and
metal contents of the CGM? More specifically, how are they spatially
distributed and partitioned in the different components? Moreover, how are they
linked to properties of host galaxies and their global clustering and
intergalactic medium environments? Lastly, what are the origin, state, and
life-cycle of the CGM? This question explores the dynamics of the CGM. Here we
illustrate how these questions may be addressed with multi-wavelength
observations of the CGM.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.11065v1
Precision measurement of magnetic field from near to far, from fine to
  large scales in ISM
Magnetic fields have important or dominant effects in many areas of
astrophysics, but have been very difficult to quantify. Spectropolarimetry from
Ground State Alignment (GSA) has been suggested as a direct tracer of magnetic
field in interstellar diffuse medium. Owing to the long life of the atoms on
ground states the Larmor precession in an external magnetic field imprints the
direction of the field onto the polarization of absorbing species. This
provides a unique tool for studies of sub-gauss magnetic fields using
polarimetry of UV, optical and radio lines. Many spectral lines with strong
signals from GSA are in the UV band. By discerning magnetic fields in gas with
different dynamical properties, high spectral resolution measurement of
spectral polarization will allow the study of 3D magnetic field distribution
and interstellar turbulence. GSA provides also a unique chance to map 3D
direction of magnetic field on small scales, e.g., disks, where grain alignment
is unreliable. The range of objects suitable for studies is extremely wide and
includes magnetic fields in the interplanetary medium, in the interstellar
medium, and in circumstellar regions as well as diffuse media in extragalactic
objects.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.11692v1
Realizing the Unique Potential of ALMA to Probe the Gas Reservoir of
  Planet Formation
Understanding the origin of the astonishing diversity of exoplanets is a key
question for the coming decades. ALMA has revolutionized our view of the dust
emission from protoplanetary disks, demonstrating the prevalence of ring and
spiral structures that are likely sculpted by young planets in formation. To
detect kinematic signatures of these protoplanets and to probe the chemistry of
their gas accretion reservoir will require the imaging of molecular spectral
line emission at high angular and spectral resolution. However, the current
sensitivity of ALMA limits these important spectral studies to only the nearest
protoplanetary disks. Although some promising results are emerging, including
the identification of the snowlines of a few key molecules and the first
attempt at detecting a protoplanet's spiral wake, it is not yet possible to
search for these important signatures in a population of disks in diverse
environments and ages. Harnessing the tremendous power of (sub)mm observations
to pinpoint and characterize the chemistry of planets in formation will require
a major increase of ALMA's spectral sensitivity (5-10x), increase in
instantaneous bandwidth (2x) at high spectral resolution, and improved angular
resolution (2x) in the 2030 era.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.11744v1
Tomography of the Cosmic Dawn and Reionization Eras with Multiple
  Tracers
The Cosmic Dawn and Reionization epochs remain a fundamental but challenging
frontier of astrophysics and cosmology. We advocate a large-scale, multi-tracer
approach to develop a comprehensive understanding of the physics that led to
the formation and evolution of the first stars and galaxies. We highlight the
line intensity mapping technique to trace the multi-phase reionization topology
on large scales, and measure reionization history in detail. Besides 21cm, we
advocate for Lya tomography mapping during the epoch of Wouthuysen-Field
coupling as an additional probe of the cosmic dawn era.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1904.04531v1
Early evolution of galaxies and of large-scale structure from CMB
  experiments
Next generation CMB experiments with arcmin resolution will, for free, lay
the foundations for a real breakthrough on the study of the early evolution of
galaxies and galaxy clusters, thanks to the detection of large samples of
strongly gravitationally lensed galaxies and of proto-clusters of dusty
galaxies up to high redshifts. This has an enormous legacy value. High
resolution follow-up of strongly lensed galaxies will allow the direct
investigation of their structure and kinematics up to z~6, providing direct
information on physical processes driving their evolution. Follow-up of
proto-clusters will allow an observational validation of the formation history
of the most massive dark matter halos up to z~4, well beyond the redshift range
accessible via X-ray or SZ measurements. These experiments will also allow a
giant leap forward in the determination of polarization properties of
extragalactic sources, and will provide a complete census of cold dust
available for star formation in the local universe.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1904.05769v1
Radio sources in next-generation CMB surveys
CMB surveys provide, for free, blindly selected samples of extragalactic
radio sources at much higher frequencies than traditional radio surveys.
Next-generation, ground-based CMB experiments with arcmin resolution at mm
wavelengths will provide samples of thousands radio sources allowing the
investigation of the evolutionary properties of blazar populations, the study
of the earliest and latest stages of radio activity, the discovery of rare
phenomena and of new transient sources and events. Space-borne experiments will
extend to sub-mm wavelengths the determinations of the SEDs of many hundreds of
blazars, in temperature and in polarization, allowing us to investigate the
flow and the structure of relativistic jets close to their base, and the
electron acceleration mechanisms. A real breakthrough will be achieved in the
caracterization of the polarization properties. The first direct counts in
polarization will be obtained, enabling a solid assessment of the
extra-galactic source contamination of CMB maps and allowing us to understand
structure and intensity of magnetic fields, particle densities and structures
of emitting regions close to the base of the jet.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1904.09003v1
Gravitational probes of ultra-light axions
The axion is a hypothetical, well-motivated dark-matter particle whose
existence would explain the lack of charge-parity violation in the strong
interaction. In addition to this original motivation, an `axiverse' of
ultra-light axions (ULAs) with masses $10^{-33}\,{\rm eV}\lesssim m_{\rm
a}\lesssim 10^{-10}\,{\rm eV}$ also emerges from string theory. Depending on
the mass, such a ULA contributes to the dark-matter density, or alternatively,
behaves like dark energy. At these masses, ULAs' classical wave-like properties
are astronomically manifested, potentially mitigating observational tensions
within the $\Lambda$CDM paradigm on local-group scales. ULAs also provide
signatures on small scales such as suppression of structure, interference
patterns and solitons to distinguish them from heavier dark matter candidates.
Through their gravitational imprint, ULAs in the presently allowed parameter
space furnish a host of observational tests to target in the next decade,
altering standard predictions for microwave background anisotropies, galaxy
clustering, Lyman-$\alpha$ absorption by neutral hydrogen along quasar
sightlines, pulsar timing, and the black-hole mass spectrum.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1904.10012v1
Astro2020 White Paper: On the Origin of the Initial Mass Function
It is usually assumed that the stellar initial mass function (IMF) takes a
universal form and that there exists a direct mapping between this and the
distribution of natal core masses (the core mass function, CMF). The IMF and
CMF have been best characterized in the Solar neighborhood. Beyond 500~pc from
the Sun, in diverse environments where metallicity varies and massive star
feedback may dominate, the IMF has been measured only incompletely and
imprecisely, while the CMF has hardly been measured at all. In order to
establish if the IMF and CMF are indeed universal and related to each other, it
is necessary to: 1) perform multi-wavelength large-scale imaging and
spectroscopic surveys of different environments across the Galaxy; 2) require
an angular resolution of < 0.1'' in the optical/near-IR for stars and < 5'' in
the far-IR for cores; 3) achieve far-IR sensitivities to probe 0.1~Msol cores
at 2--3 kpc.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1904.10994v1
The Life Cycle of Dust
Dust offers a unique probe of the interstellar medium (ISM) across multiple
size, density, and temperature scales. Dust is detected in outflows of evolved
stars, star-forming molecular clouds, planet-forming disks, and even in
galaxies at the dawn of the Universe. These grains also have a profound effect
on various astrophysical phenomena from thermal balance and extinction in
galaxies to the building blocks for planets, and changes in dust grain
properties will affect all of these phenomena. A full understanding of dust in
all of its forms and stages requires a multi-disciplinary investigation of the
dust life cycle. Such an investigation can be achieved with a statistical study
of dust properties across stellar evolution, star and planet formation, and
redshift. Current and future instrumentation will enable this investigation
through fast and sensitive observations in dust continuum, polarization, and
spectroscopy from near-infrared to millimeter wavelengths.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1904.12790v1
Astro 2020: Astromineralogy of interstellar dust with X-ray spectroscopy
X-ray absorption fine structure (XAFS) in the 0.2-2 keV band is a crucial
component in multi-wavelength studies of dust mineralogy, size, and shape --
parameters that are necessary for interpreting astronomical observations and
building physical models across all fields, from cosmology to exoplanets.
Despite its importance, many fundamental questions about dust remain open. What
is the origin of the dust that suffuses the interstellar medium (ISM)? Where is
the missing interstellar oxygen? How does iron, predominantly produced by Type
Ia supernovae, become incorporated into dust? What is the main form of carbon
in the ISM, and how does it differ from carbon in stellar winds? The next
generation of X-ray observatories, employing microcalorimeter technology and $R
\equiv \lambda/\Delta \lambda \geq 3000$ gratings, will provide pivotal
insights for these questions by measuring XAFS in absorption and scattering.
However, lab measurements of mineralogical candidates for astrophysical dust,
with R > 1000, are needed to fully take advantage of the coming observations.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1905.00311v1
Astro2020 Science White Paper: Making the Connection between Feedback
  andSpatially Resolved Emission Line Diagnostics
Crucial progress in our understanding of star formation and feedback will
depend on the ability to obtain spatially resolved spectroscopic observations
of \ion{H}{ii} regions, from which reliable instantaneous measurements of their
physical conditions can be obtained. Acquiring these datasets across full
galactic systems will prove crucial for obtaining population samples that
enable us to understand the time evolution of similar regions, and the
variability of conditions among coeval regions. Separating the spatial and
temporal dependencies in such way for different physical processes involved in
star formation and the injection of feedback is crucial to overcome the inherit
degeneracies associated with observing instantaneous snapshots of a dynamic ISM
at any given time. Emission line diagnostics are at the core of measuring the
physical condition in \ion{H}{ii} regions (e.g. dynamics, SFR, chemical
abundances, dust extinction, ionization and excitation, etc.). These
measurements require high spatial resolution, contiguous coverage across full
galactic systems, and sensitivities significantly deeper than past efforts. The
spatial scale required to resolve the \ion{H}{ii} regions of a few pc is only
attainable in the Local Group where very large sky coverage is necessary.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1905.05808v1
The Radio Universe at Low Surface Brightness: Feedback & accretion in
  the circumgalactic medium
Massive galaxies at high-z are known to co-evolve with their circumgalactic
medium (CGM). If we want to truly understand the role of the CGM in the early
evolution of galaxies and galaxy-clusters, we need to fully explore the
multi-phase nature of the CGM. We present two novel science cases that utilize
low-surface-brightness observations in the radio regime to better understand
the CGM around distant galaxies. At the lowest temperatures, observations of
widespread molecular gas are providing evidence for the cold baryon cycle that
grows massive galaxies. At the highest temperatures, observations of the
Sunyaev-Zeldovich Effect are starting to reveal the effect of quasar feedback
onto the hot gas in the CGM. We discuss the critical role that radio
interferometers with compact configurations in the millimeter regime will play
over the next decade in understanding the crucial role of the multi-phase CGM
in galaxy evolution.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04524v1
UV Diagnostics of Galaxies from the Peak of Star-Formation to the Epoch
  of Reionization
The rest-frame UV emission from massive stars contains a wealth of
information about the physical nature and conditions of star formation in
galaxies. Using studies of the rest-frame UV, the past decade has witnessed the
beginning of knowledge about the existence and properties of galaxies during
the first few billion years after the Big Bang. This period of history
corresponds to the formation of the first stars, the rapid formation of galaxy
stellar populations, the reionization of the IGM, the production and
dissemination of heavy elements, and the formation of the first black holes.
Massive stars in these galaxies drive all of these events, and their light
dominates the spectral energy distributions of galaxies. As we look to the
2020s, fundamental questions remain about the nature of these stellar
populations and their evolution, from just before the peak of the cosmic star
formation density (z~3), up to the epoch of reionization (z > 6). This next
decade will provide transformative gains both in our ability to identify
star-forming galaxies and accreting supermassive black holes at these early
epochs with imaging surveys in the rest-frame UV (e.g., LSST, WFIRST).
Ground-based, rest-frame UV spectroscopy on >20 m-class telescopes (e.g.,
GMT/TMT) offers the ability to investigate the astrophysical conditions in
galaxies at the earliest cosmic times. This includes studies of the evolution
in galaxy stellar populations, gas ionization (temperature, pressure),
metallicity, and interstellar (and circumgalactic) gas kinematics and covering
fractions. In this white paper, we describe the scientific prospects and the
requirements for research in this area.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05035v1
Measuring the Hubble Constant Near and Far in the Era of ELT's
Many of the fundamental physical constants in Physics, as a discipline, are
measured to exquisite levels of precision. The fundamental constants that
define Cosmology, however, are largely determined via a handful of independent
techniques that are applied to even fewer datasets. The history of the
measurement of the Hubble Constant (H0), which serves to anchor the expansion
history of the Universe to its current value, is an exemplar of the
difficulties of cosmological measurement; indeed, as we approach the centennial
of its first measurement, the quest for H0 still consumes a great number of
resources. In this white paper, we demonstrate how the approaching era of
Extremely Large Telescopes (ELTs) will transform the astrophysical measure of
H0 from the limited and few into a fundamentally new regime where (i) multiple,
independent techniques are employed with modest use of large aperture
facilities and (ii) 1% or better precision is readily attainable. This quantum
leap in how we approach H0 is due to the unparalleled sensitivity and spatial
resolution of ELT's and the ability to use integral field observations for
simultaneous spectroscopy and photometry, which together permit both familiar
and new techniques to effectively by-pass the conventional 'ladder' framework
to minimize total uncertainty. Three independent techniques are discussed --
(i) standard candles via a two-step distance ladder applied to metal, poor
stellar populations, (ii) standard clocks via gravitational lens cosmography,
and (iii) standard sirens via gravitational wave sources -- each of which can
reach 1% with relatively modest investment from 30-m class facilities.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.02595v1
A High-resolution SZ View of the Warm-Hot Universe
The Sunyaev-Zeldovich (SZ) effect was first predicted nearly five decades
ago, but has only recently become a mature tool for performing high resolution
studies of the warm and hot ionized gas in and between galaxies, groups, and
clusters. Galaxy groups and clusters are powerful probes of cosmology, and they
also serve as hosts for roughly half of the galaxies in the Universe. In this
white paper, we outline the advances in our understanding of thermodynamic and
kinematic properties of the warm-hot universe that can come in the next decade
through spatially and spectrally resolved measurements of the SZ effects. Many
of these advances will be enabled through new/upcoming millimeter/submillimeter
(mm/submm) instrumentation on existing facilities, but truly transformative
advances will require construction of new facilities with larger fields of view
and broad spectral coverage of the mm/submm bands.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04069v1
What we can learn from multi-band observations of black hole binaries
The LIGO/Virgo gravitational-wave (GW) interferometers have to-date detected
ten merging black hole (BH) binaries, some with masses considerably larger than
had been anticipated. Stellar-mass BH binaries at the high end of the observed
mass range (with "chirp mass" ${\cal M} \gtrsim 25 M_{\odot}$) should be
detectable by a space-based GW observatory years before those binaries become
visible to ground-based GW detectors. This white paper discusses some of the
synergies that result when the same binaries are observed by instruments in
space and on the ground. We consider intermediate-mass black hole binaries
(with total mass $M \sim 10^2 -10^4 M_{\odot}$) as well as stellar-mass black
hole binaries. We illustrate how combining space-based and ground-based data
sets can break degeneracies and thereby improve our understanding of the
binary's physical parameters. While early work focused on how space-based
observatories can forecast precisely when some mergers will be observed on the
ground, the reverse is also important: ground-based detections will allow us to
"dig deeper" into archived, space-based data to confidently identify black hole
inspirals whose signal-to-noise ratios were originally sub-threshold,
increasing the number of binaries observed in both bands by a factor of $\sim 4
- 7$.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05729v1
Opportunities for Astrophysical Science from the Inner and Outer Solar
  System
Astrophysical measurements away from the 1 AU orbit of Earth can enable
several astrophysical science cases that are challenging or impossible to
perform from Earthbound platforms, including: building a detailed understanding
of the extragalactic background light throughout the electromagnetic spectrum;
measurements of the properties of dust and ice in the inner and outer solar
system; determinations of the mass of planets and stellar remnants far from
luminous stars using gravitational microlensing; and stable time-domain
astronomy. Though potentially transformative for astrophysics, opportunities to
fly instrumentation capable of these measurements are rare, and a mission to
the distant solar system that includes instrumentation expressly designed to
perform astrophysical science, or even one primarily for a different purpose
but capable of precise astronomical investigation, has not yet been flown. In
this White Paper, we describe the science motivations for this kind of
measurement, and advocate for future flight opportunities that permit
intersectional collaboration and cooperation to make these science
investigations a reality.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.06299v1
The Demographics and Atmospheres of Giant Planets with the ELTs
Gas giants are the most readily detectable exoplanets but fundamental
questions about their system architectures, formation, migration, and
atmospheres have been unanswerable with the current generation of ground- and
space-based facilities. The dominant techniques to detect and characterize
giant planets $-$ radial velocities, transits, direct imaging, microlensing,
and astrometry $-$ are each isolated to a limited range of planet masses,
separations, ages, and temperatures. These windows into the arrangement and
physical properties of giant planets have spawned new questions about the
timescale and location of their assembly; the distributions of planet mass and
orbital separation at young and old ages; the composition and structure of
their atmospheres; and their orbital and rotational angular momentum
architectures. The ELTs will address these questions by building bridges
between these islands of mass, orbital distance, and age. The angular
resolution, collecting area, all-sky coverage, and novel instrumentation suite
of these facilities are needed to provide a complete map of the orbits and
atmospheric evolution of gas giant planets (0.3$-$10 $M_\mathrm{Jup}$) across
space (0.1$-$100 AU) and time (1 Myr to 10 Gyr). This white paper highlights
the scientific potential of the GMT and TMT to address these outstanding
questions, with a particular focus on the role of direct imaging and
spectroscopy of large samples of giant planets that will soon be made available
with $Gaia$.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.07556v1
New Frontiers for Terrestrial-sized to Neptune-sized Exoplanets In the
  Era of Extremely Large Telescopes
Surveys reveal that terrestrial- to Neptune-sized planets (1 $< R <$ 4
R$_{\rm{Earth}}$) are the most common type of planets in our galaxy. Detecting
and characterizing such small planets around nearby stars holds the key to
understanding the diversity of exoplanets and will ultimately address the
ubiquitousness of life in the universe. The following fundamental questions
will drive research in the next decade and beyond: (1) how common are
terrestrial to Neptune-sized planets within a few AU of their host star, as a
function of stellar mass? (2) How does planet composition depend on planet
mass, orbital radius, and host star properties? (3) What are the energy
budgets, atmospheric dynamics, and climates of the nearest worlds? Addressing
these questions requires: a) diffraction-limited spatial resolution; b)
stability and achievable contrast delivered by adaptive optics; and c) the
light-gathering power of extremely large telescopes (ELTs), as well as
multi-wavelength observations and all-sky coverage enabled by a comprehensive
US ELT Program. Here we provide an overview of the challenge, and promise of
success, in detecting and comprehensively characterizing small worlds around
the very nearest stars to the Sun with ELTs. This white paper extends and
complements the material presented in the findings and recommendations
published in the National Academy reports on Exoplanet Science Strategy and
Astrobiology Strategy for the Search for Life in the Universe.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.08187v1
Wide-Orbit Exoplanet Demographics
The Kepler, K2 and TESS transit surveys are revolutionizing our understanding
of planets orbiting close to their host stars and our understanding of
exoplanet systems in general, but there remains a gap in our understanding of
wide-orbit planets. This gap in our understanding must be filled if we are to
understand planet formation and how it affects exoplanet habitability. We
summarize current and planned exoplanet detection programs using a variety of
methods: microlensing (including WFIRST), radial velocities, Gaia astrometry,
and direct imaging. Finally, we discuss the prospects for joint analyses using
results from multiple methods and obstacles that could hinder such analyses.
  We endorse the findings and recommendations published in the 2018 National
Academy report on Exoplanet Science Strategy. This white paper extends and
complements the material presented therein.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.09323v1
Wide-field Multi-object Spectroscopy to Enhance Dark Energy Science from
  LSST
LSST will open new vistas for cosmology in the next decade, but it cannot
reach its full potential without data from other telescopes. Cosmological
constraints can be greatly enhanced using wide-field ($>20$ deg$^2$ total
survey area), highly-multiplexed optical and near-infrared multi-object
spectroscopy (MOS) on 4-15m telescopes. This could come in the form of
suitably-designed large surveys and/or community access to add new targets to
existing projects. First, photometric redshifts can be calibrated with high
precision using cross-correlations of photometric samples against spectroscopic
samples at $0 < z < 3$ that span thousands of sq. deg. Cross-correlations of
faint LSST objects and lensing maps with these spectroscopic samples can also
improve weak lensing cosmology by constraining intrinsic alignment systematics,
and will also provide new tests of modified gravity theories. Large samples of
LSST strong lens systems and supernovae can be studied most efficiently by
piggybacking on spectroscopic surveys covering as much of the LSST
extragalactic footprint as possible (up to $\sim20,000$ square degrees).
Finally, redshifts can be measured efficiently for a high fraction of the
supernovae in the LSST Deep Drilling Fields (DDFs) by targeting their hosts
with wide-field spectrographs. Targeting distant galaxies, supernovae, and
strong lens systems over wide areas in extended surveys with (e.g.) DESI or MSE
in the northern portion of the LSST footprint or 4MOST in the south could
realize many of these gains; DESI, 4MOST, Subaru/PFS, or MSE would all be
well-suited for DDF surveys. The most efficient solution would be a new
wide-field, highly-multiplexed spectroscopic instrument in the southern
hemisphere with $>6$m aperture. In two companion white papers we present gains
from deep, small-area MOS and from single-target imaging and spectroscopy.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.09324v1
Single-object Imaging and Spectroscopy to Enhance Dark Energy Science
  from LSST
Single-object imaging and spectroscopy on telescopes with apertures ranging
from ~4 m to 40 m have the potential to greatly enhance the cosmological
constraints that can be obtained from LSST. Two major cosmological probes will
benefit greatly from LSST follow-up: accurate spectrophotometry for nearby and
distant Type Ia supernovae will expand the cosmological distance lever arm by
unlocking the constraining power of high-z supernovae; and cosmology with time
delays of strongly-lensed supernovae and quasars will require additional
high-cadence imaging to supplement LSST, adaptive optics imaging or
spectroscopy for accurate lens and source positions, and IFU or slit
spectroscopy to measure detailed properties of lens systems. We highlight the
scientific impact of these two science drivers, and discuss how additional
resources will benefit them. For both science cases, LSST will deliver a large
sample of objects over both the wide and deep fields in the LSST survey, but
additional data to characterize both individual systems and overall systematics
will be key to ensuring robust cosmological inference to high redshifts.
Community access to large amounts of natural-seeing imaging on ~2-4 m
telescopes, adaptive optics imaging and spectroscopy on 8-40 m telescopes, and
high-throughput single-target spectroscopy on 4-40 m telescopes will be
necessary for LSST time domain cosmology to reach its full potential. In two
companion white papers we present the additional gains for LSST cosmology that
will come from deep and from wide-field multi-object spectroscopy.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.09325v1
Deep Multi-object Spectroscopy to Enhance Dark Energy Science from LSST
Community access to deep (i ~ 25), highly-multiplexed optical and
near-infrared multi-object spectroscopy (MOS) on 8-40m telescopes would greatly
improve measurements of cosmological parameters from LSST. The largest gain
would come from improvements to LSST photometric redshifts, which are employed
directly or indirectly for every major LSST cosmological probe; deep
spectroscopic datasets will enable reduced uncertainties in the redshifts of
individual objects via optimized training. Such spectroscopy will also
determine the relationship of galaxy SEDs to their environments, key
observables for studies of galaxy evolution. The resulting data will also
constrain the impact of blending on photo-z's. Focused spectroscopic campaigns
can also improve weak lensing cosmology by constraining the intrinsic
alignments between the orientations of galaxies. Galaxy cluster studies can be
enhanced by measuring motions of galaxies in and around clusters and by testing
photo-z performance in regions of high density. Photometric redshift and
intrinsic alignment studies are best-suited to instruments on large-aperture
telescopes with wider fields of view (e.g., Subaru/PFS, MSE, or GMT/MANIFEST)
but cluster investigations can be pursued with smaller-field instruments (e.g.,
Gemini/GMOS, Keck/DEIMOS, or TMT/WFOS), so deep MOS work can be distributed
amongst a variety of telescopes. However, community access to large amounts of
nights for surveys will still be needed to accomplish this work. In two
companion white papers we present gains from shallower, wide-area MOS and from
single-target imaging and spectroscopy.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.11145v1
The Next Generation Celestial Reference Frame
Astrometry, the measurement of positions and motions of the stars, is one of
the oldest disciplines in Astronomy, extending back at least as far as
Hipparchus' discovery of the precession of Earth's axes in 190 BCE by comparing
his catalog with those of his predecessors. Astrometry is fundamental to
Astronomy, and critical to many aspects of Astrophysics and Geodesy. In order
to understand our planet's and solar system's context within their
surroundings, we must be able to to define, quantify, study, refine, and
maintain an inertial frame of reference relative to which all positions and
motions can be unambiguously and self-consistently described. It is only by
using this inertial reference frame that we are able to disentangle our
observations of the motions of celestial objects from our own complex path
around our star, and its path through the galaxy, and the local group. Every
aspect of each area outlined in the call for scientific frontiers in astronomy
in the era of the 2020-2030 timeframe will depend on the quality of the
inertial reference frame. In this white paper, we propose support for
development of radio Very Long Baseline Interferometry (VLBI) capabilities,
including the Next Generation Very Large Array (ngVLA), a radio astronomy
observatory that will not only support development of a next generation
reference frame of unprecedented accuracy, but that will also serve as a highly
capable astronomical instrument in its own right. Much like its predecessors,
the Very Long Baseline Array (VLBA) and other VLBI telescopes, the proposed
ngVLA will provide the foundation for the next three decades for the
fundamental reference frame, benefitting astronomy, astrophysics, and geodesy
alike.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1904.00108v1
The Physics of Accretion Onto Highly Magnetized Neutron Stars
Studying the physical processes occurring in the region just above the
magnetic poles of strongly magnetized, accreting binary neutron stars is
essential to our understanding of stellar and binary system evolution. Perhaps
more importantly, it provides us with a natural laboratory for studying the
physics of high temperature and high density plasmas exposed to extreme
radiation, gravitational, and magnetic fields. Observations over the past
decade have shed new light on the manner in which plasma falling at velocities
near the speed of light onto a neutron star surface is halted. Recent advances
in modeling these processes have resulted in direct measurement of the magnetic
fields and plasma properties. On the other hand, numerous physical processes
have been identified that challenge our current picture of how the accretion
process onto neutron stars works. Observation and theory are our essential
tools in this regime because the extreme conditions cannot be duplicated on
Earth. This white paper gives an overview of the current theory, the
outstanding theoretical and observational challenges, and the importance of
addressing them in contemporary astrophysics research.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1904.01174v1
WFIRST: The Essential Cosmology Space Observatory for the Coming Decade
Two decades after its discovery, cosmic acceleration remains the most
profound mystery in cosmology and arguably in all of physics. Either the
Universe is dominated by a form of dark energy with exotic physical properties
not predicted by standard model physics, or General Relativity is not an
adequate description of gravity over cosmic distances. WFIRST emerged as a top
priority of Astro2010 in part because of its ability to address the mystery of
cosmic acceleration through both high precision measurements of the cosmic
expansion history and the growth of cosmic structures with multiple and
redundant probes. We illustrate in this white paper how mission design changes
since Astro2010 have made WFIRST an even more powerful dark energy facility and
have improved the ability of WFIRST to respond to changes in the experimental
landscape. WFIRST is the space-based probe of DE the community needs in the
mid-2020s.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05569v1
Positron Annihilation in the Galaxy
The 511 keV line from positron annihilation in the Galaxy was the first
$\gamma$-ray line detected to originate from outside our solar system. Going
into the fifth decade since the discovery, the source of positrons is still
unconfirmed and remains one of the enduring mysteries in $\gamma$-ray
astronomy. With a large flux of $\sim$10$^{-3}$ $\gamma$/cm$^{2}$/s, after 15
years in operation INTEGRAL/SPI has detected the 511 keV line at $>50\sigma$
and has performed high-resolution spectral studies which conclude that Galactic
positrons predominantly annihilate at low energies in warm phases of the
interstellar medium. The results from imaging are less certain, but show a
spatial distribution with a strong concentration in the center of the Galaxy.
The observed emission from the Galactic disk has low surface brightness and the
scale height is poorly constrained, therefore, the shear number of annihilating
positrons in our Galaxy is still not well know. Positrons produced in
$\beta^+$-decay of nucleosynthesis products, such as $^{26}$Al, can account for
some of the annihilation emission in the disk, but the observed spatial
distribution, in particular the excess in the Galactic bulge, remains difficult
to explain. Additionally, one of the largest uncertainties in these studies is
the unknown distance that positrons propagate before annihilation. In this
paper, we will summarize the current knowledge base of Galactic positrons, and
discuss how next-generation instruments could finally provide the answers.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.08185v1
Masses and Distances of Planetary Microlens Systems with High Angular
  Resolution Imaging
Microlensing is the only method that can detect and measure mass of wide
orbit, low mass, solar system analog exoplanets. Mass measurements of such
planets would yield massive science on planet formation, exoplanet
demographics, free floating planets, planet frequencies towards the galaxy.
High res follow-up observations of past microlens targets provide a mass
measurement of microlens planets and hosts at an uncertainty of <20%. This will
be primary method for mass measurement with WFIRST. We advocate for the fact
that high resolution observations with AO, HST and JWST(in future) remain
necessary in coming decade to develop the methods, to determine the field and
filter selection, understand the systematics and to develop a robust pipeline
to release high quality data products from WFIRST microlensing survey such that
the astronomy community can promptly engage in the science. We also support
future high res obs with US ELTs with advanced Laser AO systems in context of
enhancing the science return of WFIRST microlensing survey.
  We endorse the 2018 Exoplanet Science Strategy report published by the
National Academy. This white paper extends and complements the material
presented therein. In particular, this white paper supports the recommendation
of the National Academy Exoplanet Science Strategy report that: NASA should
launch WFIRST to conduct its microlensing survey of distant planets and to
demonstrate the technique of coronagraphic spectroscopy on exoplanet targets.
This white paper also supports to the finding from that report which states "A
number of activities, including precursor and concurrent observations using
ground- and space-based facilities, would optimize the scientific yield of the
WFIRST microlensing survey."

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.08986v1
"Auxiliary" Science with the WFIRST Microlensing Survey
The Wide Field Infrared Survey Telescope (WFIRST) will monitor $\sim 2$
deg$^2$ toward the Galactic bulge in a wide ($\sim 1-2~\mu$m) W149 filter at
15-minute cadence with exposure times of $\sim$50s for 6 seasons of 72 days
each, for a total $\sim$41,000 exposures taken over $\sim$432 days, spread over
the 5-year prime mission. This will be one of the deepest exposures of the sky
ever taken, reaching a photon-noise photometric precision of 0.01 mag per
exposure and collecting a total of $\sim 10^9$ photons over the course of the
survey for a W149$_{\rm AB}\sim 21$ star. Of order $4 \times 10^7$ stars will
be monitored with W149$_{\rm AB}$<21, and 10$^8$ stars with W145$_{\rm AB}$<23.
The WFIRST microlensing survey will detect $\sim$54,000 microlensing events, of
which roughly 1% ($\sim$500) will be due to isolated black holes, and $\sim$3%
($\sim$1600) will be due to isolated neutron stars. It will be sensitive to
(effectively) isolated compact objects with masses as low as the mass of Pluto,
thereby enabling a measurement of the compact object mass function over 10
orders of magnitude. Assuming photon-noise limited precision, it will detect
$\sim 10^5$ transiting planets with sizes as small as $\sim 2~R_\oplus$,
perform asteroseismology of $\sim 10^6$ giant stars, measure the proper motions
to $\sim 0.3\%$ and parallaxes to $\sim 10\%$ for the $\sim 6 \times 10^6$ disk
and bulge stars in the survey area, and directly detect $\sim 5 \times 10^3$
Trans-Neptunian objects (TNOs) with diameters down to $\sim 10$ km, as well as
detect $\sim 10^3$ occulations of stars by TNOs during the survey. All of this
science will completely serendipitous, i.e., it will not require modifications
of the WFIRST optimal microlensing survey design. Allowing for some minor
deviation from the optimal design, such as monitoring the Galactic center,
would enable an even broader range of transformational science.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.03686v1
The unique potential of extreme mass-ratio inspirals for
  gravitational-wave astronomy
The inspiral of a stellar-mass compact object into a massive ($\sim
10^{4}$-$10^{7} M_{\odot}$) black hole produces an intricate gravitational-wave
signal. Due to the extreme-mass ratios involved, these systems complete $\sim
10^{4}$-$10^{5}$ orbits, most of them in the strong-field region of the massive
black hole, emitting in the frequency range $\sim10^{-4}-1~$Hz. This makes them
prime sources for the space-based observatory LISA (Laser Interferometer Space
Antenna). LISA observations will enable high-precision measurements of the
physical characteristics of these extreme-mass-ratio inspirals (EMRIs):
redshifted masses, massive black hole spin and orbital eccentricity can be
determined with fractional errors $\sim 10^{-4}$-$10^{-6}$, the luminosity
distance with better than $\sim 10\%$ precision, and the sky localization to
within a few square degrees. EMRIs will provide valuable information about
stellar dynamics in galactic nuclei, as well as precise data about massive
black hole populations, including the distribution of masses and spins. They
will enable percent-level measurements of the multipolar structure of massive
black holes, precisely testing the strong-gravity properties of their
spacetimes. EMRIs may also provide cosmographical data regarding the expansion
of the Universe if inferred source locations can be correlated with galaxy
catalogs.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04417v1
Multimessenger science opportunities with mHz gravitational waves
LISA will open the mHz band of gravitational waves (GWs) to the astronomy
community. The strong gravity which powers the variety of GW sources in this
band is also crucial in a number of important astrophysical processes at the
current frontiers of astronomy. These range from the beginning of structure
formation in the early universe, through the origin and cosmic evolution of
massive black holes in concert with their galactic environments, to the
evolution of stellar remnant binaries in the Milky Way and in nearby galaxies.
These processes and their associated populations also drive current and future
observations across the electromagnetic (EM) spectrum. We review opportunities
for science breakthroughs, involving either direct coincident EM+GW
observations, or indirect multimessenger studies. We argue that for the US
community to fully capitalize on the opportunities from the LISA mission, the
US efforts should be accompanied by a coordinated and sustained program of
multi-disciplinary science investment, following the GW data through to its
impact on broad areas of astrophysics. Support for LISA-related multimessenger
observers and theorists should be sized appropriately for a flagship
observatory and may be coordinated through a dedicated mHz GW research center.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04518v1
Unveiling the Phase Transition of the Universe During the Reionization
  Epoch with Lyman-alpha
The epoch of reionization (6 < z < 10) marks the period in our universe when
the first large galaxies grew to fruition, and began to affect the universe
around them. Massive stars, and potentially accreting supermassive black holes,
filled the universe with ionizing radiation, burning off the haze of neutral
gas that had filled the intergalactic medium (IGM) since recombination
(z~1000). The evolution of this process constrains key properties of these
earliest luminous sources, thus observationally constraining reionization is a
key science goal for the next decade. The measurement of Lyman-alpha emission
from photometrically-identified galaxies is a highly constraining probe of
reionization, as a neutral IGM will resonantly scatter these photons, reducing
detectability. While significant work has been done with 8-10m telescopes,
these observations require extremely large telescopes (ELTs); the flux limits
available from today's 10m class telescopes are sufficient for only the
brightest known galaxies (m < 26). Ultra-deep surveys with the Giant Magellan
Telescope (GMT) and Thirty Meter Telescope (TMT) will be capable of detecting
Lyman-alpha emission from galaxies 2-3 magnitudes fainter than today's deepest
surveys. Wide-field fiber spectroscopy on the GMT combined with narrow-field
AO-assisted slit spectroscopy on the TMT will be able to probe the expected
size of ionized bubbles throughout the epoch of reionization, following up
degree scale deep imaging surveys with the Wide Field Infrared Space Telescope.
These data will provide the first resolved Lyman-alpha-based maps of the
ionized intergalactic medium throughout the epoch of reionization, constraining
models of both the temporal and spatial evolution of this phase change.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04550v1
Unveiling the Galaxy Cluster - Cosmic Web Connection with X-ray
  observations in the Next Decade
In recent years, the outskirts of galaxy clusters have emerged as one of the
new frontiers and unique laboratories for studying the growth of large scale
structure in the universe. Modern cosmological hydrodynamical simulations make
firm and testable predictions of the thermodynamic and chemical evolution of
the X-ray emitting intracluster medium. However, recent X-ray and
Sunyaev-Zeldovich effect observations have revealed enigmatic disagreements
with theoretical predictions, which have motivated deeper investigations of a
plethora of astrophysical processes operating in the virialization region in
the cluster outskirts. Much of the physics of cluster outskirts is
fundamentally different from that of cluster cores, which has been the main
focus of X-ray cluster science over the past several decades. A next-generation
X-ray telescope, equipped with sub-arcsecond spatial resolution over a large
field of view along with a low and stable instrumental background, is required
in order to reveal the full story of the growth of galaxy clusters and the
cosmic web and their applications for cosmology.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04580v1
Mapping Cosmic Dawn and Reionization: Challenges and Synergies
Cosmic dawn and the Epoch of Reionization (EoR) are among the least explored
observational eras in cosmology: a time at which the first galaxies and
supermassive black holes formed and reionized the cold, neutral Universe of the
post-recombination era. With current instruments, only a handful of the
brightest galaxies and quasars from that time are detectable as individual
objects, due to their extreme distances. Fortunately, a multitude of
multi-wavelength intensity mapping measurements, ranging from the redshifted 21
cm background in the radio to the unresolved X-ray background, contain a
plethora of synergistic information about this elusive era. The coming decade
will likely see direct detections of inhomogenous reionization with CMB and 21
cm observations, and a slew of other probes covering overlapping areas and
complementary physical processes will provide crucial additional information
and cross-validation. To maximize scientific discovery and return on
investment, coordinated survey planning and joint data analysis should be a
high priority, closely coupled to computational models and theoretical
predictions.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04585v1
Cool, evolved stars: results, challenges, and promises for the next
  decade
Cool, evolved stars are the main source of chemical enrichment of the
interstellar medium (ISM), and understanding their mass loss and structure
offers a unique opportunity to study the cycle of matter in the Universe.
Pulsation, convection, and other dynamic processes in cool evolved stars create
an atmosphere where molecules and dust can form, including those necessary to
the formation of life (e.g.~Carbon-bearing molecules). Understanding the
structure and composition of these stars is thus vital to several aspects of
stellar astrophysics, ranging from ISM studies to modeling young galaxies and
exoplanet research.
  Recent modeling efforts and increasingly precise observations now reveal that
our understanding of cool stars photospheric, chromospheric, and atmospheric
structures is limited by inadequate knowledge of the dynamic and chemical
processes at work. Here we outline promising scientific opportunities for the
next decade.
  We identify and discuss the following main opportunities: (1) identify and
model the physical processes that must be included in current 1D and 3D
atmosphere models of cool, evolved stars; (2) refine our understanding of
photospheric, chromospheric, and outer atmospheric regions of cool evolved
stars, their properties and parameters, through high-resolution spectroscopic
observations, and interferometric observations at high angular resolution; (3)
include the neglected role of chromospheric activity in the mass loss process
of red giant branch and red super giant stars, and understand the role played
by their magnetic fields; (4) identify the important shaping mechanisms for
planetary nebulae and their relation with the parent asymptotic giant branch
stars.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04589v1
Near-Earth Supernova Explosions: Evidence, Implications, and
  Opportunities
There is now solid experimental evidence of at least one supernova explosion
within 100 pc of Earth within the last few million years, from measurements of
the short-lived isotope 60Fe in widespread deep-ocean samples, as well as in
the lunar regolith and cosmic rays. This is the first established example of a
specific dated astrophysical event outside the Solar System having a measurable
impact on the Earth, offering new probes of stellar evolution, nuclear
astrophysics, the astrophysics of the solar neighborhood, cosmic-ray sources
and acceleration, multi-messenger astronomy, and astrobiology.
Interdisciplinary connections reach broadly to include heliophysics, geology,
and evolutionary biology. Objectives for the future include pinning down the
nature and location of the established near-Earth supernova explosions, seeking
evidence for others, and searching for other short-lived isotopes such as 26Al
and 244Pu. The unique information provided by geological and lunar detections
of radioactive 60Fe to assess nearby supernova explosions make now a compelling
time for the astronomy community to advocate for supporting multi-disciplinary,
cross-cutting research programs.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04590v1
Cyberinfrastructure Requirements to Enhance Multi-messenger Astrophysics
The identification of the electromagnetic counterpart of the gravitational
wave event, GW170817, and discovery of neutrinos and gamma-rays from TXS
0506+056 heralded the new era of multi-messenger astrophysics. As the number of
multi-messenger events rapidly grow over the next decade, the
cyberinfrastructure requirements to handle the increase in data rates, data
volume, need for event follow up, and analysis across the different messengers
will also explosively grow. The cyberinfrastructure requirements to enhance
multi-messenger astrophysics will both be a major challenge and opportunity for
astronomers, physicists, computer scientists and cyberinfrastructure
specialists. Here we outline some of these requirements and argue for a
distributed cyberinfrastructure institute for multi-messenger astrophysics to
meet these challenges.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04597v2
Probing Macro-Scale Gas Motions and Turbulence in Diffuse Cosmic Plasmas
Clusters of galaxies, the largest collapsed structures in the Universe, are
located at the intersection of extended filaments of baryons and dark matter.
Cosmological accretion onto clusters through large scale filaments adds
material at cluster outskirts. Kinetic energy in the form of bulk motions and
turbulence due to this accretion provides a form of pressure support against
gravity, supplemental to thermal pressure. Significant amount of non-thermal
pressure support could bias cluster masses derived assuming hydrostatic
equilibrium, the primary proxy for cluster cosmology studies. Sensitive
measurements of Doppler broadening and shift of astrophysical lines, and the
relative fluctuations in thermodynamical quantities (e.g., density, pressure,
and entropy) are primary diagnostic tools. Forthcoming planned and proposed
X-ray (with large etendue, throughput, and high spectral resolution) and SZ
observatories will provide crucial information on the assembly and
virialisation processes of clusters, involving turbulent eddies cascading at
various spatial scales and larger gas bulk motions in their external regions to
the depth or their potential wells.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04607v1
High-Energy Polarimetry - a new window to probe extreme physics in AGN
  jets
The constantly improving sensitivity of ground-based and space-borne
observatories has made possible the detection of high-energy emission (X-rays
and gamma-rays) from several thousands of extragalactic sources. Enormous
progress has been made in measuring the continuum flux enabling us to perform
imaging, spectral and timing studies. An important remaining challenge for
high-energy astronomy is measuring polarization. The capability to measure
polarization is being realized currently at X-ray energies (e.g. with IXPE),
and sensitive gamma-ray telescopes capable of measuring polarization, such as
AMEGO, AdEPT, e-ASTROGAM, etc., are being developed. These future gamma-ray
telescopes will probe the radiation mechanisms and magnetic fields of
relativistic jets from active galactic nuclei at spatial scales much smaller
than the angular resolution achieved with continuum observations of the
instrument. In this white paper, we discuss the scientific potentials of
high-energy polarimetry, especially gamma-ray polarimetry, including the
theoretical implications, and observational technology advances being made. In
particular, we will explore the primary scientific opportunities and wealth of
information expected from synergy of multi-wavelength polarimetry that will be
brought to multi-messenger astronomy.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04742v1
Testing the Nature of Dark Matter with Extremely Large Telescopes
For nearly 40 years, dark matter has been widely assumed to be cold and
collisionless. Cold dark matter models make fundamental predictions for the
behavior of dark matter on small (<10 kpc) scales. These predictions include
cuspy density profiles at the centers of dark matter halos and a halo mass
function that increases as dN/dM ~ M^-1.9 down to very small masses. We suggest
two observational programs relying on extremely large telescopes to critically
test these predictions, and thus shed new light on the nature of dark matter.
(1) Combining adaptive optics-enabled imaging with deep spectroscopy to measure
the three-dimensional motions of stars within a sample of Local Group dwarf
galaxies that are the cleanest dark matter laboratories known in the nearby
universe. From these observations the inner slope of the dark matter density
profile can be determined with an accuracy of 0.20 dex, enabling a central cusp
to be distinguished from a core at 5 sigma significance. (2)
Diffraction-limited AO imaging and integral field spectroscopy of
gravitationally lensed galaxies and quasars to quantify the abundance of dark
substructures in the halos of the lens galaxies and along the line of sight.
Observations of 50 lensed arcs and 50 multiply-imaged quasars will be
sufficient to measure the halo mass function over the range 10^7 < M < 10^10
Msun at cosmological scales, independent of the baryonic and stellar
composition of those structures. These two observational probes provide
complementary information about the small scale structure, with a joint
self-consistent analysis mitigating limitations of either probe. This program
will produce the strongest existing constraints on the properties of dark
matter on small scales, allowing conclusive tests of alternative warm, fuzzy,
and self-interacting dark matter models.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05077v1
Protoplanetary Disk Science Enabled by Extremely Large Telescopes
The processes that transform gas and dust in circumstellar disks into diverse
exoplanets remain poorly understood. One key pathway is to study exoplanets as
they form in their young ($\sim$few~Myr) natal disks. Extremely Large
Telescopes (ELTs) such as GMT, TMT, or ELT, can be used to establish the
initial chemical conditions, locations, and timescales of planet formation, via
(1)~measuring the physical and chemical conditions in protoplanetary disks
using infrared spectroscopy and (2)~studying planet-disk interactions using
imaging and spectro-astrometry. Our current knowledge is based on a limited
sample of targets, representing the brightest, most extreme cases, and thus
almost certainly represents an incomplete understanding. ELTs will play a
transformational role in this arena, thanks to the high spatial and spectral
resolution data they will deliver. We recommend a key science program to
conduct a volume-limited survey of high-resolution spectroscopy and
high-contrast imaging of the nearest protoplanetary disks that would result in
an unbiased, holistic picture of planet formation as it occurs.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05128v2
The Next Generation of Cosmological Measurements with Type Ia Supernovae
While Type Ia Supernovae (SNe Ia) are one of the most mature cosmological
probes, the next era promises to be extremely exciting in the number of
different ways SNe Ia are used to measure various cosmological parameters. Here
we review the experiments in the 2020s that will yield orders of magnitudes
more SNe Ia, and the new understandings and capabilities to constrain
systematic uncertainties at a level to match these statistics. We then discuss
five different cosmological probes with SNe Ia: the conventional Hubble diagram
for measuring dark energy properties, the distance ladder for measuring the
Hubble constant, peculiar velocities and weak lensing for measuring sigma8 and
strong-lens measurements of H0 and other cosmological parameters. For each of
these probes, we discuss the experiments that will provide the best
measurements and also the SN Ia-related systematics that affect each one.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05161v1
Cosmic voids: a novel probe to shed light on our Universe
Cosmic voids, the less dense patches of the Universe, are promising
laboratories to extract cosmological information. Thanks to their unique low
density character, voids are extremely sensitive to diffuse components such as
neutrinos and dark energy, and represent ideal environments to study
modifications of gravity, where the effects of such modifications are expected
to be more prominent. Robust void-related observables, including for example
redshift-space distortions (RSD) and weak lensing around voids, are a promising
way to chase and test new physics. Cosmological analysis of the large-scale
structure of the Universe predominantly relies on the high density regions.
Current and upcoming surveys are designed to optimize the extraction of
cosmological information from these zones, but leave voids under-exploited. A
dense, large area spectroscopic survey with imaging capabilities is ideal to
exploit the power of voids fully. Besides helping illuminate the nature of dark
energy, modified gravity, and neutrinos, this survey will give access to a
detailed map of under-dense regions, providing an unprecedented opportunity to
observe and study a so far under-explored galaxy population.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05319v1
Imaging Giant Protoplanets with the ELTs
We have now accumulated a wealth of observations of the planet-formation
environment and of mature planetary systems. These data allow us to test and
refine theories of gas-giant planet formation by placing constraints on the
conditions and timescale of this process. Yet a number of fundamental questions
remain unanswered about how protoplanets accumulate material, their
photospheric properties and compositions, and how they interact with
protoplanetary disks. While we have begun to detect protoplanet candidates
during the last several years, we are presently only sensitive to the widest
separation, highest mass / accretion rate cases. Current observing facilities
lack the angular resolution and inner working angle to probe the few-AU orbital
separations where giant planet formation is thought to be most efficient. They
also lack the contrast to detect accretion rates that would form lower mass gas
giants and ice giants. Instruments and telescopes coming online over the next
decade will provide high contrast in the inner giant-planet-forming regions
around young stars, allowing us to build a protoplanet census and to
characterize planet formation in detail for the first time.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05666v1
Extremely metal-poor stars: the need for UV spectra
Our current understanding of the chemical evolution of the Universe is that a
first generation of stars was formed out of primordial material, completely
devoid of metals (Pop III stars). This first population of stars comprised
massive stars that exploded as supernovae disseminating the metals they
synthesised in the interstellar medium. These massive stars are long dead and
cannot be observed in the local Universe. Among very metal poor stars
(metallicity below -2.0) we expect to find the direct descendants of these
pristine metal factories. The chemical composition of these stars provides us
indirect information on the nature of the Pop III stars, their masses,
luminosities and mode of explosion. The constraints are stronger if the
chemical inventory is more complete, more chemical elements and isotopic ratios
are measured for each star. Unfortunately the lower the metallicity of the
star, the weaker the lines. Access to the space UV spectral range gives us
crucial supplementary information. To start with, it allows access to some very
strong Fe lines that may allow to measure the abundance of this element in
stars for which this was not possible from the ground-accessible UV spectra.
The number of such stars is steadily increasing. Next the UV range allows us to
measure elements that cannot be measured from ground-based spectra like P, Ge,
As, Se, Cd, Te, Lu, Os, Ir, Pt, Au. In addition it is fundamental for measuring
other elements that can be accessed from earth, but with great difficulty, like
C, S, Cu, Zn, Pb. The Hubble space telescope, with its limited collecting power
made this possible only for very few stars. Old metal poor stars are cool, of
spectral types F,G,K, and their UV flux is low. The availability of a UV high
resolution spectrograph fed by a large area space telescope will open an
unprecedented window on the early evolution of our Galaxy.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.06034v1
Illuminating the dark universe with a very high density galaxy redshift
  survey over a wide area
The nature of dark energy remains a profound mystery 20 years after the
discovery of cosmic acceleration. A very high number density galaxy redshift
survey over a wide area (HD GRS Wide) spanning the redshift range of 0.5<z<4
using the same tracer, carried out using massively parallel wide field
multi-object slit spectroscopy from space, will provide definitive dark energy
measurements with minimal observational systematics by design. The HD GRS Wide
will illuminate the nature of dark energy, and lead to revolutionary advances
in particle physics and cosmology. It will also trace the cosmic web of dark
matter and provide key insight into large-scale structure in the Universe. The
required observational facility can be established as part of the probe
portfolio by NASA within the next decade.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.06197v2
Astro2020 Science White Paper: Synergies Between Galaxy Surveys and
  Reionization Measurements
The early phases of galaxy formation constitute one of the most exciting
frontiers in astrophysics. It is during this era that the first luminous
sources reionize the intergalactic medium - the moment when structure formation
affects every baryon in the Universe. Here we argue that we will obtain a
complete picture of this era by combining observations of galaxies with direct
measurements of the reionization process: the former will provide a detailed
understanding of bright sources, while the latter will constrain the
(substantial) faint source population. We further describe how optimizing the
comparison of these two measurements requires near-infrared galaxy surveys
covering large volumes and retaining redshift information and also improvements
in 21-cm analysis, moving those experiments into the imaging regime.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.06201v1
Ultraviolet Perspectives on Diffuse Gas in the Largest Cosmic Structures
The past decade has seen an explosion of discoveries and new insights into
the diffuse gas within galaxies, galaxy clusters, and the filaments composing
the Cosmic Web. A new decade will bring fresh opportunities to further this
progress towards developing a comprehensive view of the composition, thermal
state, and physical processes of diffuse gas in the Universe. Ultraviolet (UV)
spectroscopy, probing diffuse 10^4-10^6 K gas at high spectral resolution, is
uniquely poised to (1) witness environmental galaxy quenching processes in
action, such as strangulation and tidal- and ram-pressure stripping, (2)
directly account for the baryon content of galaxy clusters in the cold-warm
(T<10^6 K) gas, (3) determine the phase structure and kinematics of gas
participating in the equilibrium-regulating exchange of energy at the cores of
galaxy clusters, and (4) map cold streams and filaments of the Cosmic Web that
feed galaxies and clusters. With a substantial UV undertaking beyond the Hubble
Space Telescope, all of the above would be achievable over the entire epoch of
galaxy cluster formation. Such capabilities, coupled with already-planned
advancements at other wavelengths, will transform extragalactic astronomy by
revealing the dominant formation and growth mechanisms of gaseous halos over
the mass spectrum, settling the debate between early- and late-time metal
enrichment scenarios, and revealing how the ecosystems in which galaxies reside
ultimately facilitate their demise.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.06204v2
Astro2020 Science White Paper: Insights Into the Epoch of Reionization
  with the Highly-Redshifted 21-cm Line
The epoch of reionization, when photons from early galaxies ionized the
intergalactic medium about a billion years after the Big Bang, is the last
major phase transition in the Universe's history. Measuring the characteristics
of the transition is important for understanding early galaxies and the cosmic
web and for modeling dwarf galaxies in the later Universe. But such
measurements require probes of the intergalactic medium itself. Here we
describe how the 21-cm line of neutral hydrogen provides a powerful probe of
the reionization process and therefore important constraints on both the
galaxies and intergalactic absorbers at that time. While existing experiments
will make precise statistical measurements over the next decade, we argue that
improved 21-cm analysis techniques - allowing imaging of the neutral gas itself
- as well as improved theoretical models, are crucial for testing our
understanding of this important era.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.06748v1
The physics and astrophysics of X-ray outflows from Active Galactic
  Nuclei
The highly energetic outflows from Active Galactic Nuclei detected in X-rays
are one of the most powerful mechanisms by which the central supermassive black
hole (SMBH) interacts with the host galaxy. The last two decades of high
resolution X-ray spectroscopy with XMM and Chandra have improved our
understanding of the nature of these outflowing ionized absorbers and we are
now poised to take the next giant leap with higher spectral resolution and
higher throughput observatories to understand the physics and impact of these
outflows on the host galaxy gas. The future studies on X-ray outflows not only
have the potential to unravel some of the currently outstanding puzzles in
astronomy, such as the physical basis behind the MBH$-\sigma$ relation, the
cooling flow problem in intra-cluster medium (ICM), and the evolution of the
quasar luminosity function across cosmic timescales, but also provide rare
insights into the dynamics and nature of matter in the immediate vicinity of
the SMBH. Higher spectral resolution ($\le 0.5$ eV at $1$ keV) observations
will be required to identify individual absorption lines and study the
asymmetries and shifts in the line profiles revealing important information
about outflow structures and their impact. Higher effective area ($\ge 1000 \rm
\,cm^{2}$) will be required to study the outflows in distant quasars,
particularly at the quasar peak era (redshift $1\le z\le 3$) when the AGN
population was the brightest. Thus, it is imperative that we develop next
generation X-ray telescopes with high spectral resolution and high throughput
for unveiling the properties and impact of highly energetic X-ray outflows. A
simultaneous high resolution UV + X-ray mission will encompass the crucial AGN
ionizing continuum, and also characterize the simultaneous detections of UV and
X-ray outflows, which map different spatial scales along the line of sight.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.06844v1
Breaking the limit: Super-Eddington accretion onto black holes and
  neutron stars
With the recent discoveries of massive and highly luminous quasars at high
redshifts ($z\sim7$; e.g. Mortlock et al. 2011), the question of how black
holes (BHs) grow in the early Universe has been cast in a new light. In order
to grow BHs with $M_{\rm BH} > 10^9$ M$_{\odot}$ by less than a billion years
after the Big Bang, mass accretion onto the low-mass seed BHs needs to have
been very rapid (Volonteri & Rees, 2005). Indeed, for any stellar remnant seed,
the rate required would need to exceed the Eddington limit. This is the point
at which the outward force produced by radiation pressure is equal to the
gravitational attraction experienced by the in-falling matter. In principle,
this implies that there is a maximum luminosity an object of mass $M$ can emit;
assuming spherical accretion and that the opacity is dominated by Thompson
scattering, this Eddington luminosity is $L_{\rm{E}} = 1.38 \times 10^{38}
(M/M_{\odot})$ erg s$^{-1}$. In reality, it is known that this limit can be
violated, due to non-spherical geometry or various kinds of instabilities.
Nevertheless, the Eddington limit remains an important reference point, and
many of the details of how accretion proceeds above this limit remain unclear.
Understanding how this so-called super-Eddington accretion occurs is of clear
cosmological importance, since it potentially governs the growth of the first
supermassive black holes (SMBHs) and the impact this growth would have had on
their host galaxies (`feedback') and the epoch of reionization, as well as
improving our understanding of accretion physics more generally.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.07409v1
Observing Galaxy Evolution in the Context of Large-Scale Structure
Galaxies form and evolve in the context of their local and large-scale
environments. Their baryonic content that we observe with imaging and
spectroscopy is intimately connected to the properties of their dark matter
halos, and to their location in the "cosmic web" of large-scale structure. Very
large spectroscopic surveys of the local universe (e.g., SDSS and GAMA) measure
galaxy positions (location within large-scale structure), statistical
clustering (a direct constraint on dark matter halo masses), and spectral
features (measuring physical conditions of the gas and stars within the
galaxies, as well as internal velocities). Deep surveys with the James Webb
Space Telescope (JWST) will revolutionize spectroscopic measurements of
redshifts and spectral properties for galaxies out to the epoch of
reionization, but with numerical statistics and over cosmic volumes that are
too small to map large-scale structure and to constrain halo properties via
clustering. Here, we consider advances in understanding galaxy evolution that
would be enabled by very large spectroscopic surveys at high redshifts: very
large numbers of galaxies (outstanding statistics) over large co-moving volumes
(large-scale structure on all scales) over broad redshift ranges (evolution
over most of cosmic history). The required observational facility can be
established as part of the probe portfolio by NASA within the next decade.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.07644v1
Multi-Messenger Astrophysics with Pulsar Timing Arrays
Pulsar timing arrays (PTAs) are on the verge of detecting low-frequency
gravitational waves (GWs) from supermassive black hole binaries (SMBHBs). With
continued observations of a large sample of millisecond pulsars, PTAs will
reach this major milestone within the next decade. Already, SMBHB candidates
are being identified by electromagnetic surveys in ever-increasing numbers;
upcoming surveys will enhance our ability to detect and verify candidates, and
will be instrumental in identifying the host galaxies of GW sources.
Multi-messenger (GW and electromagnetic) observations of SMBHBs will
revolutionize our understanding of the co-evolution of SMBHs with their host
galaxies, the dynamical interactions between binaries and their galactic
environments, and the fundamental physics of accretion. Multi-messenger
observations can also make SMBHBs 'standard sirens' for cosmological distance
measurements out to $z\simeq0.5$. LIGO has already ushered in breakthrough
insights in our knowledge of black holes. The multi-messenger detection of
SMBHBs with PTAs will be a breakthrough in the years $2020-2030$ and beyond,
and prepare us for LISA to help complete our views of black hole demographics
and evolution at higher redshifts.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.07835v1
GRBs as Probes of the Early Universe with TSO
Long gamma-ray bursts (GRBs) are the most luminous known electromagnetic
radiation sources in the Universe for the 3 to 300 sec of their prompt flashes
(isotropic X/ gamma-ray luminosities up to 10^53 ergs/sec). Their afterglows
have first day rest-frame UV/optical absolute magnitudes AB = -30 to -23. This
luminous continuum nUV-nIR back-light provides the ultimate probe of the SFR(z)
back to the first Pop III to II.5 stars, expected to be massive and GRB
progenitors. GRB afterglow spectra in the first 1 to 3 hours will directly
measure their host galaxy ionization fraction x_i vs. z in the Epoch of
Reionization (EOR), tracing the growth of structure. Only 28% of Swift GRBs
have measured redshifts due to limited followup at R, J >21. Some ~25% of GRBs
are optically dark due to dust absorption in their host galaxies, but those
with low NH in their X-ray spectra are likely at z >7. Current 8-10m telescopes
and coming ELTs cannot pursue optically dark GRBs promptly, nor can JWST or
WFIRST slew within 0.5 to 1 days of a GRB. The Time-domain Spectroscopic
Observatory (TSO) is a proposed Probe-class 1.3m telescope at L2, with imaging
and spectroscopy (R = 200, 1800) in 4 bands (0.3 to 5um) and rapid slew
capability to 90% of sky. TSO would finally utilize z > 6 to 12 GRBs as the
most direct probe of the SFR(z), EOR(z), and possibly the first direct
detection of the core collapse of the very first (Pop III) stars.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.08116v1
Low Mass Stars as Tracers of Star Formation in Diverse Environments
Background: low-mass stars are the dominant product of the star formation
process, and they trace star formation over the full range of environments,
from isolated globules to clusters in the central molecular zone. In the past
two decades, our understanding of the spatial distribution and properties of
young low-mass stars and protostars has been revolutionized by sensitive
space-based observations at X-ray and IR wavelengths. By surveying spatial
scales from clusters to molecular clouds, these data provide robust
measurements of key star formation properties.
  Goal: with their large numbers and their presence in diverse environments,
censuses of low mass stars and protostars can be used to measure the dependence
of star formation on environmental properties, such as the density and
temperature of the natal gas, strengths of the magnetic and radiation fields,
and the density of stars. Here we summarize how such censuses can answer three
basic questions: i.) how is the star formation rate influenced by environment,
ii.) does the IMF vary with environment, and iii.) how does the environment
shape the formation of bound clusters? Answering these questions is an
important step toward understanding star and cluster formation across the
extreme range of environments found in the Universe.
  Requirements: sensitivity and angular resolution improvements will allow us
to study the full range of environments found in the Milky Way. High spatial
dynamic range (< 1arcsec to > 1degree scales) imaging with space-based
telescopes at X-ray, mid-IR, and far-IR and ground-based facilities at near-IR
and sub-mm wavelengths are needed to identify and characterize young stars.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.08213v1
Unlocking the Capabilities of Future High-Resolution X-ray Spectroscopy
  Missions Through Laboratory Astrophysics
Thanks to high-resolution and non-dispersive spectrometers onboard future
X-ray missions such as XRISM and Athena, we are finally poised to answer
important questions about the formation and evolution of galaxies and
large-scale structure. However, we currently lack an adequate understanding of
many atomic processes behind the spectral features we will soon observe. Large
error bars on parameters as critical as transition energies and atomic cross
sections can lead to unacceptable uncertainties in the calculations of e.g.,
elemental abundance, velocity, and temperature. Unless we address these issues,
we risk limiting the full scientific potential of these missions. Laboratory
astrophysics, which comprises theoretical and experimental studies of the
underlying physics behind observable astrophysical processes, is therefore
central to the success of these missions.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.08777v1
The Disk Gas Mass and the Far-IR Revolution
The gaseous mass of protoplanetary disks is a fundamental quantity in planet
formation. The presence of gas is necessary to assemble planetesimals, it
determines timescales of giant planet birth, and it is an unknown factor for a
wide range of properties of planet formation, from chemical abundances (X/H) to
the mass efficiency of planet formation. The gas mass obtained from traditional
tracers, such as dust thermal continuum and CO isotopologues, are now known to
have significant (1 - 2 orders of magnitude) discrepancies. Emission from the
isotopologue of H2, hydrogen deuteride (HD), offers an alternative measurement
of the disk gas mass.
  Of all of the regions of the spectrum, the far-infrared stands out in that
orders of magnitude gains in sensitivity can be gleaned by cooling a large
aperture telescope to 8 K. Such a facility can open up a vast new area of the
spectrum to exploration. One of the primary benefits of this far-infrared
revolution would be the ability to survey hundreds of planet-forming disks in
HD emission to derive their gaseous masses. For the first time, we will have
statistics on the gas mass as a function of evolution, tracing birth to
dispersal as a function of stellar spectral type. These measurements have broad
implications for our understanding of the time scale during which gas is
available to form giant planets, the dynamical evolution of the seeds of
terrestrial worlds, and the resulting chemical composition of pre-planetary
embryos carrying the elements needed for life. Measurements of the ground-state
line of HD requires a space-based observatory operating in the far-infrared at
112 microns.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.09430v1
Mapping Gas Phase Abundances and Enrichment Patterns Across Galaxy Disks
The distribution of gas-phase abundances in galaxy disks encodes the history
of nucleosynthesis and transport through the interstellar medium (ISM) over
cosmic time. Multi-object and high resolution integral-field spectroscopy have
started to measure these distributions across hundreds of HII regions
individually resolved at $\lesssim 100$ pc scales in a handful of objects, but
in the coming decade these studies will expand to larger samples of galaxies.
This will allow us to understand the role of feedback and turbulence in driving
the mixing and diffusion of metals in the ISM, and statistically assess the
role of galaxy environment and disk dynamics in modifying how mixing proceeds.
Detailed searches for over- and under-enriched regions can address to what
extent star formation is triggered by previous generations of star formation
and by pristine and recycled gas flows. Local galaxies, for which these
detailed measurements will be possible within the next decade, will inform the
interpretation of integrated measurements at high-z, where very different
dynamical gas-rich environments are found in early disk galaxies. Currently,
progress in the field is severely hampered by the 0.2-0.3 dex level systematic
uncertainties plaguing nebular abundance diagnostics. Improving our detailed
understanding of ionized nebulae at $<$20 pc scales will help us find a
solution to this problem, which will prove key to the study of metal enrichment
and mixing across the galaxy population in the next decade.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.11091v1
Cosmic evolution of supermassive black holes: A view into the next two
  decades
The discoveries made over the past 20 years by Chandra and XMM-Newton surveys
in conjunction with multiwavelength imaging and spectroscopic data available in
the same fields have significantly changed the view of the supermassive black
hole (SMBH) and galaxy connection. These discoveries have opened up several
exciting questions that are beyond the capabilities of current X-ray telescopes
and will need to be addressed by observatories in the next two decades. As new
observatories peer into the early Universe, we will begin to understand the
physics and demographics of SMBH infancy (at $z>6$) and investigate the
influence of their accretion on the formation of the first galaxies ($\S$ 2.1).
We will also be able to understand the accretion and evolution over the cosmic
history (at $z\sim$1-6) of the full population of black holes in galaxies,
including low accretion rate, heavily obscured AGNs at luminosities beyond the
reach of current X-ray surveys ($\S$2.2 and $\S$2.3), enabling us to resolve
the connection between SMBH growth and their environment.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.12338v1
High-Energy Photon and Particle Effects onExoplanet Atmospheres and
  Habitability
It is now recognized that energetic stellar photon and particle radiation
evaporates and erodes planetary atmospheres and controls upper atmospheric
chemistry. Key exoplanet host stars will be too faint at X-ray wavelengths for
accurate characterization using existing generation and future slated X-ray
telescopes. Observation of stellar coronal mass ejections and winds are also
beyond current instrumentation. In line with theCommittee on an Exoplanet
Science Strategy recognition that holistic observational approaches are needed,
we point out here that a full understanding of exoplanet atmospheres, their
evolution and determination of habitability requires a powerful high-resolution
X-ray imaging and spectroscopic observatory. This is the only capability that
can: (1) characterize by proxy the crucial, difficult to observe, EUV stellar
flux, its history and its variations for planet hosting stars; (2) observe the
stellar wind; (3) detect the subtle Doppler signatures of coronal mass
ejections.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1904.02715v1
Exocometary Science
Evidence for exocomets, icy bodies in extrasolar planetary systems, has
rapidly increased over the past decade. Volatiles are detected through the gas
that exocomets release as they collide and grind down within their natal belts,
or as they sublimate once scattered inwards to the regions closest to their
host star. Most detections are in young, 10 to a few 100 Myr-old systems that
are undergoing the final stages of terrestrial planet formation. This opens the
exciting possibility to study exocomets at the epoch of volatile delivery to
the inner regions of planetary systems. Detection of molecular and atomic gas
in exocometary belts allows us to estimate molecular ice abundances and overall
elemental abundances, enabling comparison with the Solar Nebula and Solar
System comets. At the same time, observing star-grazing exocomets transiting in
front of their star (for planetary systems viewed edge-on) and exozodiacal dust
in the systems' innermost regions gives unique dynamical insights into the
inward scattering process producing delivery to inner rocky planets. The rapid
advances of this budding subfield of exoplanetary science will continue in the
short term with the upcoming JWST, WFIRST and PLATO missions. In the longer
term, the priority should be to explore the full composition of exocomets,
including species crucial for delivery and later prebiotic synthesis. Doing so
around an increasingly large population of exoplanetary systems is equally
important, to enable comparative studies of young exocomets at the epoch of
volatile delivery. We identify the proposed LUVOIR and Origins flagship
missions as the most promising for a large-scale exploration of exocometary
gas, a crucial component of the chemical heritage of young exo-Earths.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1904.05897v1
Achieving Transformative Understanding of Extreme Stellar Explosions
  with ELT-enabled Late-time Spectroscopy
Supernovae are among the most powerful and influential explosions in the
universe. They are also ideal multi-messenger laboratories to study extreme
astrophysics. However, many fundamental properties of supernovae related to
their diverse progenitor systems and explosion mechanisms remain poorly
constrained. Here we outline how late-time spectroscopic observations obtained
during the nebular phase (several months to years after explosion), made
possible with the next generation of Extremely Large Telescopes, will
facilitate transformational science opportunities and rapidly accelerate the
community towards our goal of achieving a complete understanding of supernova
explosions. We highlight specific examples of how complementary GMT and TMT
instrumentation will enable high fidelity spectroscopy from which the line
profiles and luminosities of elements tracing mass loss and ejecta can be used
to extract kinematic and chemical information with unprecedented detail, for
hundreds of objects. This will provide uniquely powerful constraints on the
evolutionary phases stars may experience approaching a supernova explosion; the
subsequent explosion dynamics; their nucleosynthesis yields; and the formation
of compact objects that may act as central engines.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1904.09326v1
Disentangling nature from nurture: tracing the origin of seed black
  holes
The origin and properties of black hole seeds that grow to produce the
detected population of supermassive black holes are unconstrained at present.
Despite the existence of several potentially feasible channels for the
production of initial seeds in the high redshift universe, since even actively
growing seeds are not directly observable at these epochs, discriminating
between models remains challenging. Several new observables that encapsulate
information about seeding have been proposed in recent years, and these offer
exciting prospects for truly unraveling the nature of black hole seeds in the
coming years. One of the key challenges for this task lies in the complexity of
the problem, the required disentangling of the confounding effects of accretion
physics and mergers, as mergers and accretion events over cosmic time stand to
erase these initial conditions. Nevertheless, some unique signatures of seeding
do survive and still exist in: local scaling relations between black holes and
their galaxy hosts at low-masses; in high-redshift luminosity functions of
accreting black holes; and in the total number and mass functions of
gravitational wave coalescence events from merging binary black holes. One of
the clearest discriminants for seed models are these high redshift
gravitational wave detections of mergers from space detectable in the
milliHertz range. These predicted event rates offer the most direct constraints
on the properties of initial black hole seeds. Improving our theoretical
understanding of black hole dynamics and accretion will also be pivotal in
constraining seeding models in combination with the wide range of
multi-messenger data.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1904.12968v1
The Most Powerful Lenses in the Universe: Quasar Microlensing as a Probe
  of the Lensing Galaxy
Optical and X-ray observations of strongly gravitationally lensed quasars
(especially when four separate images of the quasar are produced) determine not
only the amount of matter in the lensing galaxy but also how much is in a
smooth component and how much is composed of compact masses (e.g., stars,
stellar remnants, primordial black holes, CDM sub-halos, and planets). Future
optical surveys will discover hundreds to thousands of quadruply lensed
quasars, and sensitive X-ray observations will unambiguously determine the
ratio of smooth to clumpy matter at specific locations in the lensing galaxies
and calibrate the stellar mass fundamental plane, providing a determination of
the stellar $M/L$. A modest observing program with a sensitive, sub-arcsecond
X-ray imager, combined with the planned optical observations, can make those
determinations for a large number (hundreds) of the lensing galaxies, which
will span a redshift range of $\sim$$0.25<z<1.5$

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04546v1
Planet formation: The case for large efforts on the computational side
Modern astronomy has finally been able to observe protoplanetary disks in
reasonable resolution and detail, unveiling the processes happening during
planet formation. These observed processes are understood under the framework
of disk-planet interaction, a process studied analytically and modeled
numerically for over 40 years. Long a theoreticians' game, the wealth of
observational data has been allowing for increasingly stringent tests of the
theoretical models. Modeling efforts are crucial to support the interpretation
of direct imaging analyses, not just for potential detections but also to put
meaningful upper limits on mass accretion rates and other physical quantities
in current and future large-scale surveys. This white paper addresses the
questions of what efforts on the computational side are required in the next
decade to advance our theoretical understanding, explain the observational
data, and guide new observations. We identified the nature of accretion, ab
initio planet formation, early evolution, and circumplanetary disks as major
fields of interest in computational planet formation. We recommend that
modelers relax the approximations of alpha-viscosity and isothermal equations
of state, on the grounds that these models use flawed assumptions, even if they
give good visual qualitative agreement with observations. We similarly
recommend that population synthesis move away from 1D hydrodynamics. The
computational resources to reach these goals should be developed during the
next decade, through improvements in algorithms and the hardware for hybrid
CPU/GPU clusters. Coupled with high angular resolution and great line
sensitivity in ground based interferometers, ELTs and JWST, these advances in
computational efforts should allow for large strides in the field in the next
decade.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.03629v1
Cosmic Dawn and Reionization: Astrophysics in the Final Frontier
The cosmic dawn and epoch of reionization mark the time period in the
universe when stars, galaxies, and blackhole seeds first formed and the
intergalactic medium changed from neutral to an ionized one. Despite
substantial progress with multi-wavelength observations, astrophysical process
during this time period remain some of the least understood with large
uncertainties on our existing models of galaxy, blackhole, and structure
formation. This white paper outlines the current state of knowledge and
anticipated scientific outcomes with ground and space-based astronomical
facilities in the 2020s. We then propose a number of scientific goals and
objectives for new facilities in late 2020s to mid 2030s that will lead to
definitive measurements of key astrophysical processes in the epoch of
reionization and cosmic dawn.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04944v1
"SZ spectroscopy" in the coming decade: Galaxy cluster cosmology and
  astrophysics in the submillimeter
Sunyaev-Zeldovich (SZ) effects were first proposed in the 1970s as tools to
identify the X-ray emitting hot gas inside massive clusters of galaxies and
obtain their velocities relative to the cosmic microwave background (CMB). Yet
it is only within the last decade that they have begun to significantly impact
astronomical research. Thanks to the rapid developments in CMB instrumentation,
measurement of the dominant thermal signature of the SZ effects has become a
routine tool to find and characterize large samples of galaxy clusters and to
seek deeper understanding of several important astrophysical processes via
high-resolution imaging studies of many targets. With the notable exception of
the Planck satellite and a few combinations of ground-based observatories, much
of this "SZ revolution" has happened in the photometric mode, where
observations are made at one or two frequencies in the millimeter regime to
maximize the cluster detection significance and minimize the foregrounds.
Still, there is much more to learn from detailed and systematic analyses of the
SZ spectra across multiple wavelengths, specifically in the submillimeter (>300
GHz) domain. The goal of this Science White Paper is to highlight this
particular aspect of SZ research, point out what new and potentially
groundbreaking insights can be obtained from these studies, and emphasize why
the coming decade can be a golden era for SZ spectral measurements.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.06853v1
Reconstructing Extreme Space Weather from Planet Hosting Stars
The field of exoplanetary science is making rapid progress both in
statistical studies of exoplanet properties as well as in individual
characterization. As space missions provide an emerging picture of formation
and evolution of exoplanetary systems, the search for habitable worlds becomes
one of the fundamental issues to address. To tackle such a complex challenge,
we need to specify the conditions favorable for the origin, development and
sustainment of life as we know it. This requires the understanding of global
(astrospheric) and local (atmospheric, surface and internal) environments of
exoplanets in the framework of the physical processes of the interaction
between evolving planet-hosting stars along with exoplanetary evolution over
geological timescales, and the resulting impact on climate and habitability of
exoplanets. Feedbacks between astrophysical, physico-chemical atmospheric and
geological processes can only be understood through interdisciplinary studies
with the incorporation of progress in heliophysics, astrophysics, planetary,
Earth sciences, astrobiology, and the origin of life communities. The
assessment of the impacts of host stars on the climate and habitability of
terrestrial (exo)planets and potential exomoons around them may significantly
modify the extent and the location of the habitable zone and provide new
directions for searching for signatures of life. Thus, characterization of
stellar ionizing outputs becomes an important task for further understanding
the extent of habitability in the universe. The goal of this white paper is to
identify and describe promising key research goals to aid the theoretical
characterization and observational detection of ionizing radiation from
quiescent and flaring upper atmospheres of planet hosts as well as properties
of stellar coronal mass ejections and stellar energetic particle events.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1905.07064v1
The Need for Laboratory Measurements and Ab Initio Studies to Aid
  Understanding of Exoplanetary Atmospheres
We are now on a clear trajectory for improvements in exoplanet observations
that will revolutionize our ability to characterize their atmospheric
structure, composition, and circulation, from gas giants to rocky planets.
However, exoplanet atmospheric models capable of interpreting the upcoming
observations are often limited by insufficiencies in the laboratory and
theoretical data that serve as critical inputs to atmospheric physical and
chemical tools. Here we provide an up-to-date and condensed description of
areas where laboratory and/or ab initio investigations could fill critical gaps
in our ability to model exoplanet atmospheric opacities, clouds, and chemistry,
building off a larger 2016 white paper, and endorsed by the NAS Exoplanet
Science Strategy report. Now is the ideal time for progress in these areas, but
this progress requires better access to, understanding of, and training in the
production of spectroscopic data as well as a better insight into chemical
reaction kinetics both thermal and radiation-induced at a broad range of
temperatures. Given that most published efforts have emphasized relatively
Earth-like conditions, we can expect significant and enlightening discoveries
as emphasis moves to the exotic atmospheres of exoplanets.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.03263v1
Science from an Ultra-Deep, High-Resolution Millimeter-Wave Survey
Opening up a new window of millimeter-wave observations that span frequency
bands in the range of 30 to 500 GHz, survey half the sky, and are both an order
of magnitude deeper (about 0.5 uK-arcmin) and of higher-resolution (about 10
arcseconds) than currently funded surveys would yield an enormous gain in
understanding of both fundamental physics and astrophysics. In particular, such
a survey would allow for major advances in measuring the distribution of dark
matter and gas on small-scales, and yield needed insight on 1.) dark matter
particle properties, 2.) the evolution of gas and galaxies, 3.) new light
particle species, 4.) the epoch of inflation, and 5.) the census of bodies
orbiting in the outer Solar System.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04078v1
The First Luminous Quasars and Their Host Galaxies
The discovery of luminous quasars at redshifts up to 7.5 demonstrates the
existence of several billion M_sun supermassive black holes (SMBHs) less than a
billion years after the Big Bang. They are accompanied by intense star
formation in their host galaxies, pinpointing sites of massive galaxy assembly
in the early universe, while their absorption spectra reveal an increasing
neutral intergalactic medium (IGM) at the epoch of reionization. Extrapolating
from the rapid evolution of the quasar density at z=5-7, we expect that there
is only one luminous quasar powered by a billion M_sun SMBH in the entire
observable universe at z~9. In the next decade, new wide-field, deep
near-infrared (NIR) sky surveys will push the redshift frontier to the first
luminous quasars at z~9-10; the combination with new deep X-ray surveys will
probe fainter quasar populations that trace earlier phases of SMBH growth. The
identification of these record-breaking quasars, and the measurements of their
BH masses and accretion properties require sensitive spectroscopic observations
with next generation of ground-based and space telescopes at NIR wavelengths.
High-resolution integral-field spectroscopy at NIR, and observations at
millimeter and radio wavelengths, will together provide a panchromatic view of
the quasar host galaxies and their galactic environment at cosmic dawn,
connecting SMBH growth with the rise of the earliest massive galaxies.
Systematic surveys and multiwavelength follow-up observations of the earliest
luminous quasars will strongly constrain the seeding and growth of the first
SMBHs in the universe, and provide the best lines of sight to study the history
of reionization.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04629v1
Multi-Messenger Astronomy with Extremely Large Telescopes
The field of time-domain astrophysics has entered the era of Multi-messenger
Astronomy (MMA). One key science goal for the next decade (and beyond) will be
to characterize gravitational wave (GW) and neutrino sources using the next
generation of Extremely Large Telescopes (ELTs). These studies will have a
broad impact across astrophysics, informing our knowledge of the production and
enrichment history of the heaviest chemical elements, constrain the dense
matter equation of state, provide independent constraints on cosmology,
increase our understanding of particle acceleration in shocks and jets, and
study the lives of black holes in the universe. Future GW detectors will
greatly improve their sensitivity during the coming decade, as will
near-infrared telescopes capable of independently finding kilonovae from
neutron star mergers. However, the electromagnetic counterparts to
high-frequency (LIGO/Virgo band) GW sources will be distant and faint and thus
demand ELT capabilities for characterization. ELTs will be important and
necessary contributors to an advanced and complete multi-messenger network.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04779v1
The case for a 'sub-millimeter SDSS': a 3D map of galaxy evolution to
  z~10
The Sloan Digital Sky Survey (SDSS) was revolutionary because of the
extraordinary breadth and ambition of its optical imaging and spectroscopy. We
argue that a 'sub-millimeter SDSS' - a sensitive large-area
imaging+spectroscopic survey in the sub-mm window - will revolutionize our
understanding of galaxy evolution in the early Universe. By detecting the
thermal dust continuum emission and atomic and molecular line emission of
galaxies out to z~10 it will be possible to measure the redshifts, star
formation rates, dust and gas content of hundreds of thousands of high-z
galaxies down to ~L*. Many of these galaxies will have counterparts visible in
the deep optical imaging of the Large Synoptic Survey Telescope. This 3D map of
galaxy evolution will span the peak epoch of galaxy formation all the way back
to cosmic dawn, measuring the co-evolution of the star formation rate density
and molecular gas content of galaxies, tracking the production of metals and
charting the growth of large-scale structure.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05110v1
Simultaneous Measurements of Star Formation and Supermassive Black Hole
  Growth in Galaxies
Galaxies grow their supermassive black holes in concert with their stars,
although the relationship between these major galactic components is poorly
understood. Observations of the cosmic growth of stars and black holes in
galaxies suffer from disjoint samples and the strong effects of dust
attenuation. The thermal infrared holds incredible potential for simultaneously
measuring both the star formation and black hole accretion rates in large
samples of galaxies covering a wide range of physical conditions. Spitzer
demonstrated this potential at low redshift, and by observing some of the most
luminous galaxies at z~2. JWST will apply these methods to normal galaxies at
these epochs, but will not be able to generate large spectroscopic samples or
access the thermal infrared at high-redshift. An order of magnitude gap in our
wavelength coverage will persist between JWST and ALMA. A large, cold infrared
telescope can fill this gap to determine when (in cosmic time), and where
(within the cosmic web), stars and black holes co-evolve, by measuring these
processes simultaneously in statistically complete and unbiased samples of
galaxies to z>8. A next-generation radio interferometer will have the
resolution and sensitivity to measure star-formation and nuclear accretion in
even the dustiest galaxies. Together, the thermal infrared and radio can
uniquely determine how stars and supermassive blackholes co-evolve in galaxies
over cosmic time.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.06527v1
On the observability of individual Population III stars and their
  stellar-mass black hole accretion disks through cluster caustic transits
Recent near-IR power-spectra and panchromatic Extragalactic Background Light
measurements provide upper limits on the near-IR surface brightness (SB>31
mag/arcsec^2) that may come from Pop III stars and accretion disks around
resulting stellar-mass black holes (BHs) in the epoch of First Light (z=7-17).
Physical parameters for zero metallicity Pop III stars at z>7 can be estimated
from MESA stellar evolution models through helium-depletion, and for BH
accretion disks from quasar microlensing results and multicolor accretion
models. Second-generation stars can form at higher multiplicity, so that BH
accretion disks may be fed by Roche-lobe overflow from lower-mass companions in
their AGB stage. The near-IR SB constraints can be used to calculate the number
of caustic transits behind lensing clusters that JWST and the 25~39 m
ground-based telescopes may detect for both Pop III stars and stellar mass BH
accretion disks. Because Pop III stars and stellar mass BH accretion disks have
sizes of a few x 10^-11 arcsec at z>7, typical caustic magnifications can be
mu=10^4~10^5, with rise times of hours and decline times of < 1 year for
cluster transverse velocities of v<1000 km/s. Microlensing by intracluster
medium objects can modify transit magnifications, and lengthen visibility
times. Depending on BH masses, accretion-disk radii and feeding efficiencies,
stellar-mass BH accretion-disk caustic transits could outnumber those from Pop
III stars. To observe Pop III caustic transits directly may require monitoring
3~30 lensing clusters to AB< 29 mag over a decade or more. Such a program must
be started with JWST in Cycle 1, and -- depending on the role of microlensing
in the Intra Cluster Light -- should be continued for decades with the GMT and
TMT, where JWST and the ground-based telescopes each will play a unique and
strongly complementary role.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.08219v1
The Scientific Context of WFIRST Microlensing in the 2020s
[abridged] WFIRST is uniquely capable of finding planets with masses as small
as Mars at separations comparable to Jupiter, i.e., beyond the current ice
lines of their stars. These planets fall between the close-in planets found by
Kepler and the wide separation gas giants seen by direct imaging and ice giants
inferred from ALMA observations. Furthermore, the smallest planets WFIRST can
detect are smaller than the planets probed by RV and Gaia at comparable
separations. Interpreting planet populations to infer the underlying formation
and evolutionary processes requires combining results from multiple detection
methods to measure the full variation of planets as a function of planet size,
orbital separation, and host star mass. Microlensing is the only way to find
planets from 0.5 to 5M_E at 1 to 5au. The case for a microlensing survey from
space has not changed in the past 20 yrs: space allows wide-field
diffraction-limited observations that resolve main-sequence stars in the bulge,
which allows the detection and characterization of the smallest signals
including those from planets with masses at least as small as Mars. What has
changed is that ground-based (GB) microlensing is reaching its limits,
underscoring the scientific necessity for a space-based survey. GB microlensing
has found a break in the mass-ratio distribution at about a Neptune, implying
that these are the most common microlensing planet and that planets smaller
than this are rare. However, GB microlensing reaches its detection limits only
slightly below the observed break. WFIRST will measure the shape of the
mass-ratio function below the break by finding numerous smaller planets: 500
Neptunes, 600 gas giants, 200 Earths, and planets as small as 0.1M_E. Because
it will also measure host masses and distances, WFIRST will also track the
behavior of the planet distribution as a function of separation and host star
mass.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.08579v1
Electromagnetic Window into the Dawn of Black Holes
Massive 10^6-10^10 Msun black holes (BHs) are ubiquitous in local galactic
nuclei. They were common by the time the Universe is several Gyr old, and many
of them were in place within the first 1~Gyr after the Big Bang. Their quick
assembly has been attributed to mechanisms such as the rapid collapse of gas
into the nuclei of early protogalaxies, accretion and mergers of stellar-mass
BHs accompanying structure formation at early times, and the runaway collapse
of early, ultra-dense stellar clusters. The origin of the early massive BHs
remains an intriguing and long-standing unsolved puzzle in astrophysics. Here
we discuss strategies for discerning between BH seeding models using
electromagnetic observations. We argue that the most direct answers will be
obtained through detection of BHs with masses M<10^5 Msun at redshifts z>10,
where we expect them to first form. Reaching out to these redshifts and down to
these masses is crucial, because BHs are expected to lose the memory of their
initial assembly by the time they grow well above 10^5 Msun and are
incorporated into higher-mass galaxies. The best way to detect 10^4-10^5 Msun
BHs at high redshifts is by a sensitive X-ray survey. Critical constraining
power is augmented by establishing the properties and the environments of their
host galaxies in deep optical/IR imaging surveys. Required OIR data can be
obtained with the JWST and WFIRST missions. The required X-ray flux limits
(down to 10^{-19} erg/s/cm^2) are accessible only with a next-generation X-ray
observatory which has both high (sub-1") angular resolution and high
throughput. A combination of deep X-ray and OIR surveys will be capable of
probing several generic markers of the BH seed scenarios, and resolving the
long-stanging puzzle of their origin. These electromagnetic observations are
also highly synergistic with the information from LISA on high-z BH mergers.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.08659v1
The evolution of the cosmic molecular gas density
One of the last missing pieces in the puzzle of galaxy formation and
evolution through cosmic history is a detailed picture of the role of the cold
gas supply in the star-formation process. Cold gas is the fuel for star
formation, and thus regulates the buildup of stellar mass, both through the
amount of material present through a galaxy's gas mass fraction, and through
the efficiency at which it is converted to stars. Over the last decade,
important progress has been made in understanding the relative importance of
these two factors along with the role of feedback, and the first measurements
of the volume density of cold gas out to redshift 4, (the "cold gas history of
the Universe") has been obtained. To match the precision of measurements of the
star formation and black-hole accretion histories over the coming decades, a
two orders of magnitude improvement in molecular line survey speeds is required
compared to what is possible with current facilities. Possible pathways towards
such large gains include significant upgrades to current facilities like ALMA
by 2030 (and beyond), and eventually the construction of a new generation of
radio-to-millimeter wavelength facilities, such as the next generation Very
Large Array (ngVLA) concept.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.11130v1
Imprint of Drivers of Galaxy Formation in the Circumgalactic Medium
The majority of baryons reside beyond the optical extent of a galaxy in the
circumgalactic and intergalactic media (CGM/IGM). Gaseous halos are
inextricably linked to the appearance of their host galaxies through a complex
story of accretion, feedback, and continual recycling. The energetic processes,
which define the state of gas in the CGM, are the same ones that 1) regulate
stellar growth so that it is not over-efficient, and 2) create the diversity of
today's galaxy colors, SFRs, and morphologies spanning Hubble's Tuning Fork
Diagram. They work in concert to set the speed of growth on the star-forming
Main Sequence, transform a galaxy across the Green Valley, and maintain a
galaxy's quenched appearance on the Red Sequence. Most baryons in halos more
massive than 10^12 Msolar along with their high-energy physics and dynamics
remain invisible because that gas is heated above the UV ionization states. We
argue that information on many of the essential drivers of galaxy evolution is
primarily contained in this "missing" hot gas phase. Completing the picture of
galaxy formation requires uncovering the physical mechanisms behind stellar and
SMBH feedback driving mass, metals, and energy into the CGM. By opening
galactic hot halos to new wavebands, we not only obtain fossil imprints of >13
Gyrs of evolution, but observe on-going hot-mode accretion, the deposition of
superwind outflows into the CGM, and the re-arrangement of baryons by SMBH
feedback. A description of the flows of mass, metals, and energy will only be
complete by observing the thermodynamic states, chemical compositions,
structure, and dynamics of T>=10^6 K halos. These measurements are uniquely
possible with a next-generation X-ray observatory if it provides the
sensitivity to detect faint CGM emission, spectroscopic power to measure
absorption lines and gas motions, and high spatial resolution to resolve
structures.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.12228v1
Ultra-heavy cosmic-ray science--Are r-process nuclei in the cosmic rays
  produced in supernovae or binary neutron star mergers?
The recent detection of 60Fe in the cosmic rays provides conclusive evidence
that there is a recently synthesized component (few MY) in the GCRs (Binns et
al. 2016). In addition, these nuclei must have been synthesized and accelerated
in supernovae near the solar system, probably in the Sco-Cen OB association
subgroups, which are about 100 pc distant from the Sun. Recent theoretical work
on the production of r-process nuclei appears to indicate that it is difficult
for SNe to produce the solar system abundances relative to iron of r-process
elements with high atomic number (Z), including the actinides (Th, U, Np, Pu,
and Cm). Instead, it is believed by many that the heaviest r-process nuclei, or
perhaps even all r-process nuclei, are produced in binary neutron star mergers.
Since we now know that there is at least a component of the GCRs that has been
recently synthesized and accelerated, models of r-process production by SNe and
BNSM can be tested by measuring the relative abundances of these ultra-heavy
r-process nuclei, and especially the actinides, since they are radioactive and
provide clocks that give the time interval from nucleosynthesis to detection at
Earth. Since BNSM are believed to be much less frequent in our galaxy than SNe
(roughly 1000 times less frequent, the ratios of the actinides, each with their
own half-life, will enable a clear determination of whether the heaviest
r-process nuclei are synthesized in SNe or in BNSM. In addition, the r-process
nuclei for the charge range from 34 to 82 can be used to constrain models of
r-process production in BNSM and SNe. Thus, GCRs become a multi-messenger
component in the study of BNSM and SNe.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1905.04275v1
Directly Imaging Rocky Planets from the Ground
Over the past three decades instruments on the ground and in space have
discovered thousands of planets outside the solar system. These observations
have given rise to an astonishingly detailed picture of the demographics of
short-period planets, but are incomplete at longer periods where both the
sensitivity of transit surveys and radial velocity signals plummet. Even more
glaring is that the spectra of planets discovered with these indirect methods
are either inaccessible (radial velocity detections) or only available for a
small subclass of transiting planets with thick, clear atmospheres. Direct
detection can be used to discover and characterize the atmospheres of planets
at intermediate and wide separations, including non-transiting exoplanets.
Today, a small number of exoplanets have been directly imaged, but they
represent only a rare class of young, self-luminous super-Jovian-mass objects
orbiting tens to hundreds of AU from their host stars. Atmospheric
characterization of planets in the <5 AU regime, where radial velocity (RV)
surveys have revealed an abundance of other worlds, is technically feasible
with 30-m class apertures in combination with an advanced AO system,
coronagraph, and suite of spectrometers and imagers. There is a vast range of
unexplored science accessible through astrometry, photometry, and spectroscopy
of rocky planets, ice giants, and gas giants. In this whitepaper we will focus
on one of the most ambitious science goals --- detecting for the first time
habitable-zone rocky (<1.6 R_Earth) exoplanets in reflected light around nearby
M-dwarfs

http://arxiv.org/abs/1906.10134v1
CMB-HD: An Ultra-Deep, High-Resolution Millimeter-Wave Survey Over Half
  the Sky
A millimeter-wave survey over half the sky, that spans frequencies in the
range of 30 to 350 GHz, and that is both an order of magnitude deeper and of
higher-resolution than currently funded surveys would yield an enormous gain in
understanding of both fundamental physics and astrophysics. By providing such a
deep, high-resolution millimeter-wave survey (about 0.5 uK-arcmin noise and 15
arcsecond resolution at 150 GHz), CMB-HD will enable major advances. It will
allow 1) the use of gravitational lensing of the primordial microwave
background to map the distribution of matter on small scales (k~10/hMpc), which
probes dark matter particle properties. It will also allow 2) measurements of
the thermal and kinetic Sunyaev-Zel'dovich effects on small scales to map the
gas density and gas pressure profiles of halos over a wide field, which probes
galaxy evolution and cluster astrophysics. In addition, CMB-HD would allow us
to cross critical thresholds in fundamental physics: 3) ruling out or detecting
any new, light (< 0.1eV), thermal particles, which could potentially be the
dark matter, and 4) testing a wide class of multi-field models that could
explain an epoch of inflation in the early Universe. Such a survey would also
5) monitor the transient sky by mapping the full observing region every few
days, which opens a new window on gamma-ray bursts, novae, fast radio bursts,
and variable active galactic nuclei. Moreover, CMB-HD would 6) provide a census
of planets, dwarf planets, and asteroids in the outer Solar System, and 7)
enable the detection of exo-Oort clouds around other solar systems, shedding
light on planet formation. CMB-HD will deliver this survey in 5 years of
observing half the sky, using two new 30-meter-class off-axis cross-Dragone
telescopes to be located at Cerro Toco in the Atacama Desert. The telescopes
will field about 2.4 million detectors (600,000 pixels) in total.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.09208v1
Inflation and Dark Energy from spectroscopy at $z > 2$
The expansion of the Universe is understood to have accelerated during two
epochs: in its very first moments during a period of Inflation and much more
recently, at $z < 1$, when Dark Energy is hypothesized to drive cosmic
acceleration. The undiscovered mechanisms behind these two epochs represent
some of the most important open problems in fundamental physics. The large
cosmological volume at $2 < z < 5$, together with the ability to efficiently
target high-$z$ galaxies with known techniques, enables large gains in the
study of Inflation and Dark Energy. A future spectroscopic survey can test the
Gaussianity of the initial conditions up to a factor of ~50 better than our
current bounds, crossing the crucial theoretical threshold of
$\sigma(f_{NL}^{\rm local})$ of order unity that separates single field and
multi-field models. Simultaneously, it can measure the fraction of Dark Energy
at the percent level up to $z = 5$, thus serving as an unprecedented test of
the standard model and opening up a tremendous discovery space.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1902.05569v1
The Wide Field Infrared Survey Telescope: 100 Hubbles for the 2020s
The Wide Field Infrared Survey Telescope (WFIRST) is a 2.4m space telescope
with a 0.281 deg^2 field of view for near-IR imaging and slitless spectroscopy
and a coronagraph designed for > 10^8 starlight suppresion. As background
information for Astro2020 white papers, this article summarizes the current
design and anticipated performance of WFIRST. While WFIRST does not have the UV
imaging/spectroscopic capabilities of the Hubble Space Telescope, for wide
field near-IR surveys WFIRST is hundreds of times more efficient. Some of the
most ambitious multi-cycle HST Treasury programs could be executed as routine
General Observer (GO) programs on WFIRST. The large area and time-domain
surveys planned for the cosmology and exoplanet microlensing programs will
produce extraordinarily rich data sets that enable an enormous range of
Archival Research (AR) investigations. Requirements for the coronagraph are
defined based on its status as a technology demonstration, but its expected
performance will enable unprecedented observations of nearby giant exoplanets
and circumstellar disks. WFIRST is currently in the Preliminary Design and
Technology Completion phase (Phase B), on schedule for launch in 2025, with
several of its critical components already in production.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04218v2
Spectral Distortions of the CMB as a Probe of Inflation, Recombination,
  Structure Formation and Particle Physics
Following the pioneering observations with COBE in the early 1990s, studies
of the cosmic microwave background (CMB) have focused on temperature and
polarization anisotropies. CMB spectral distortions - tiny departures of the
CMB energy spectrum from that of a perfect blackbody - provide a second,
independent probe of fundamental physics, with a reach deep into the primordial
Universe. The theoretical foundation of spectral distortions has seen major
advances in recent years, which highlight the immense potential of this
emerging field. Spectral distortions probe a fundamental property of the
Universe - its thermal history - thereby providing additional insight into
processes within the cosmological standard model (CSM) as well as new physics
beyond. Spectral distortions are an important tool for understanding inflation
and the nature of dark matter. They shed new light on the physics of
recombination and reionization, both prominent stages in the evolution of our
Universe, and furnish critical information on baryonic feedback processes, in
addition to probing primordial correlation functions at scales inaccessible to
other tracers. In principle the range of signals is vast: many orders of
magnitude of discovery space could be explored by detailed observations of the
CMB energy spectrum. Several CSM signals are predicted and provide clear
experimental targets, some of which are already observable with present-day
technology. Confirmation of these signals would extend the reach of the CSM by
orders of magnitude in physical scale as the Universe evolves from the initial
stages to its present form. The absence of these signals would pose a huge
theoretical challenge, immediately pointing to new physics.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04409v2
Primordial Non-Gaussianity
Our current understanding of the Universe is established through the pristine
measurements of structure in the cosmic microwave background (CMB) and the
distribution and shapes of galaxies tracing the large scale structure (LSS) of
the Universe. One key ingredient that underlies cosmological observables is
that the field that sources the observed structure is assumed to be initially
Gaussian with high precision. Nevertheless, a minimal deviation from
Gaussianityis perhaps the most robust theoretical prediction of models that
explain the observed Universe; itis necessarily present even in the simplest
scenarios. In addition, most inflationary models produce far higher levels of
non-Gaussianity. Since non-Gaussianity directly probes the dynamics in the
early Universe, a detection would present a monumental discovery in cosmology,
providing clues about physics at energy scales as high as the GUT scale.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.04763v1
Messengers from the Early Universe: Cosmic Neutrinos and Other Light
  Relics
The hot dense environment of the early universe is known to have produced
large numbers of baryons, photons, and neutrinos. These extreme conditions may
have also produced other long-lived species, including new light particles
(such as axions or sterile neutrinos) or gravitational waves. The gravitational
effects of any such light relics can be observed through their unique imprint
in the cosmic microwave background (CMB), the large-scale structure, and the
primordial light element abundances, and are important in determining the
initial conditions of the universe. We argue that future cosmological
observations, in particular improved maps of the CMB on small angular scales,
can be orders of magnitude more sensitive for probing the thermal history of
the early universe than current experiments. These observations offer a unique
and broad discovery space for new physics in the dark sector and beyond, even
when its effects would not be visible in terrestrial experiments or in
astrophysical environments. A detection of an excess light relic abundance
would be a clear indication of new physics and would provide the first direct
information about the universe between the times of reheating and neutrino
decoupling one second later.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05293v1
Envisioning the next decade of Galactic Center science: a laboratory for
  the study of the physics and astrophysics of supermassive black holes
As the closest example of a galactic nucleus, the Galactic center (GC)
presents an exquisite laboratory for learning about supermassive black holes
(SMBH) and their environment. We describe several exciting new research
directions that, over the next 10 years, hold the potential to answer some of
the biggest scientific questions raised in recent decades: Is General
Relativity (GR) the correct description for supermassive black holes? What is
the nature of star formation in extreme environments? How do stars and compact
objects dynamically interact with the supermassive black hole? What physical
processes drive gas accretion in low-luminosity black holes? We describe how
the high sensitivity, angular resolution, and astrometric precision offered by
the next generation of large ground-based telescopes with adaptive optics will
help us answer these questions. First, it will be possible to obtain precision
measurements of stellar orbits in the Galaxy's central potential, providing
both tests of GR in the unexplored regime near a SMBH and measurements of the
extended dark matter distribution that is predicted to exist at the GC. Second,
we will probe stellar populations at the GC to significantly lower masses than
are possible today, down to brown dwarfs. Their structure and dynamics will
provide an unprecedented view of the stellar cusp around the SMBH and will
distinguish between models of star formation in this extreme environment. This
increase in depth will also allow us to measure the currently unknown
population of compact remnants at the GC by observing their effects on luminous
sources. Third, uncertainties on the mass of and distance to the SMBH can be
improved by a factor of $\sim$10. Finally, we can also study the near-infrared
accretion onto the black hole at unprecedented sensitivity and time resolution,
which can reveal the underlying physics of black hole accretion.

http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.05242v1
Variability in the Assembly of Protostellar Systems
Understanding the collapse of clouds and the formation of protoplanetary
disks is essential to understanding the formation of stars and planets. Infall
and accretion, the mass-aggregation processes that occur at envelope and disk
scales, drive the dynamical evolution of protostars. While the observations of
protostars at different stages constrain their evolutionary tracks, the impact
of variability due to accretion bursts on dynamical and chemical evolution of
the source is largely unknown. The lasting effects on protostellar envelopes
and disks are tracked through multi-wavelength and time domain observational
campaigns, requiring deep X-ray, infrared, and radio imaging and spectroscopy,
at a sufficient level of spatial detail to distinguish contributions from the
various substructures (i.e., envelope from disk from star from outflow).
Protostellar models derived from these campaigns will illuminate the initial
chemical state of protoplanetary disks during the epoch of giant planet
formation. Insight from individual star formation in the Milky Way is also
necessary to understand star formation rates in extragalactic sources. This
cannot be achieved with ground-based observatories and is not covered by
currently approved instrumentation. Requirements: High (v < 10 km/s for survey;
v < 1 km/s for followup) spectral resolution capabilities with relatively rapid
response times in the IR (3-500 um), X-ray (0.1-10 keV), and radio (cm) are
critical to follow the course of accretion and outflow during an outburst.
Complementary, AU-scale radio observations are needed to probe the disk
accretion zone, and 10 AU-scale to probe chemical and kinematic structures of
the disk-forming regions, and track changes in the dust, ice, and gas within
protostellar envelopes.

